
Manage virtual hosts

A

virtual host

 combines Apache virtual host functionality with publisher mapping
within GEE Server so that you can publish databases securely. You
create and register a virtual host in GEE Server, assign a security
protocol to it, and then associate multiple databases, including
portable globes and maps, with that single virtual host. Add another
virtual host when you want to use different authentication and to
associate different databases.

For example, you may have one or two security protocols but many
databases and portable files to publish. Once you have created a
virtual host for each security protocol and set up the appropriate
authentication, you can associate different databases and portable
globes and maps with the different virtual hosts, depending on the
security protocols you need to apply.

You can also use the

default virtual host

 configurations provided with GEE Server.

Tip: See

  Configure GEE Server for SSL/HTTPS

   to add virtual hosts for HTTPS servers.See

  geserveradmin

   in the

  Command reference

   for information about all the virtual host commands.

Note: You may configure a virtual server in Apache using standard
  virtual host directives but it won’t be capable of hosting a GEE
  database until it is registered using "geserveradmin", as described
  in

  Create and register a virtual host in GEE Server

  .

Default virtual hosts

Create and register a virtual host in GEE Server

Configure virtual hosts with a custom port number

Associate a database with a virtual host

Naming virtual hosts

-[ Default virtual hosts ]-

By default, GEE Server has two registered virtual hosts:

public

 and

secure

. The secure virtual host is a protected virtual host with basic
authentication. The default credentials are:

Username: geeuser

Password: geeuser

-[ To reset the username and password: ]-

   sudo /opt/google/gehttpd/bin/htpasswd
   /opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers/.vhpasswd geeuser

The public virtual host is unprotected and does not require any
authentication.

-[ Create and register a virtual host with digest authentication ]-

You create and register a virtual host using the "geserveradmin
--addvh" command. This action results in a location-based virtual host
for which you can configure authentication and create a password for a
given user name. The following example shows how to set up

digest authentication

, one of the standard authentication types ("AuthType") provided by
Apache server. See

Apache HTTP Server 2.4 htdigest

.

Tip: In GEE 4.4, virtual hosts were previously called

  virtual servers

  . Now, in GEE 5.x, virtual hosts specify a security protocol only
  and can also be associated with multiple published globes and maps.
  This change decouples the task of setting up security protocols from
  publishing maps and globes.

-[ To create and register a virtual host with digest authentication:
]-

Create and register a virtual host in GEE Server using the
geserveradmin command:  /opt/google/bin/geserveradmin --addvh digest
[--vhurl <url>] [--vhcachelevel <level>]  geserveradmin creates the
default location-based virtual host digest_host.location in
/opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers and registers it in GEE
Server.  The vhurl specifies the location of the virtual host. It must
match the corresponding server-side virtual host configuration.

Optionally, modify virtual host settings in digest_host.location to
set up authentication.

-[ To set up digest authentication: ]-

Edit the digest_host.location file to set up the authentication
configuration:  cd /opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers sudo vi
digest_host.location

Add the following content to the digest_host.location file:  # The
digest virtual host. RewriteEngine on  <Location /digest_host/>
SetHandler fdb-handler    AuthType Digest    AuthName "Private"
AuthDigestProvider file    AuthUserFile
/opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers/.htdigest    Require valid-
user </Location>

Create the password with a given user name using the password path
that you specified in the digest_host.location file:  sudo htdigest -c
/opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers/.htdigest Private username
sudo chmod 755 /opt/google/gehttpd/conf.d/virtual_servers/.htdigest
#Enter password twice at prompt

Restart geserver after virtual host settings have been modified.  sudo
/etc/init.d/geserver restart  A virtual host can also be configured
for SSL/HTTPS. See Configure GEE Server for SSL/HTTPS.

-[ Configure virtual hosts with a custom port number ]-

You may need to configure a virtual host to use a custom port setting
number, commonly to differentiate from any default port ("http:80",
"https:443") you may be using or when standard port numbers are being
used for other purposes. With some edits to your Apache configuration
files, you can set up custom port numbers for any location-based
virtual host.

When creating a location-based virtual host with a custom port number,
you need to rename and manually include the newly created location
file, "*.location" or "*.location_ssl", in "<Apache
path>/conf.d/virtual_servers/" into the corresponding "<Virtual Host>"
section of the Apache configuration file and restart GEE server.

-[ To add a virtual host with a custom port number configured for SSL:
]-

Run geserveradmin on the command line, e.g., adding a virtual host
my_custom_port_ssl with a virtual host URL and custom port number:  #
geserveradmin —addvh —ssl my_custom_port_ssl —vhurl
https://myservername.com:4343

Change the extension of the newly created
my_custom_port_ssl.location_ssl configuration file to differentiate
from any default port (443) SSL virtual hosts you may have configured:
<Apache
path>/conf.d/virtual_servers/my_custom_port_ssl.location_ssl_custom

Then manually add the Include directives for your custom port virtual
host to the SSL configuration file for Apache server,
/opt/google/gehttpd/conf/extra/httpd-ssl.conf:  <VirtualHost
_non_default_:4343>      # Include all SSL location-based virtual
servers with custom port 4343.      Include
conf.d/virtual_servers/*.location_ssl_custom </VirtualHost>

Restart GEE Server:  sudo /etc/init.d/geserver restart

-[ Associate a database with a virtual host ]-

To associate a database or portable globe or map with a virtual host,
you specify the virtual host when you publish in GEE Server.


See

Publishing databases and portables

.

-[ Naming virtual hosts ]-

Virtual hosts on GEE Server are name-based, meaning that you can have
multiple names that serve assets running on a single IP address. With
name-based virtual hosting, GEE Server relies on the client to report
the host name as part of the HTTP headers. Using this method, many
different hosts can share the same IP address.

Although usage of the virtual host names is hidden, reusing the name
for other assets being served can cause conflicts. To that end, GEE
Server checks the target path when you create a virtual host against
reserved words and virtual host paths already registered in system,
but does not check the virtual host name itself. Here is the list of
reserved words that we check against: "fdb", "htdocs", "admin",
"cutter", "earth", "icons", "js", "maps", "portable", "shared_assets."

-[ Learn more ]-

Configure GEE Server for SSL/HTTPS

LDAP authentication
