
Defining and Building Resources

The first step in preparing data is to define resources by importing
the source data into Google Earth Enterprise Fusion. You import
imagery, terrain, and vector data separately.

This lesson guides you through defining and building imagery, terrain,
and vector resources.

Define Imagery Resources  Explore Imagery Source Files  Define Imagery
Resources  Build an Imagery Resource  Define and Build the Remaining
Imagery Resources  Preview the Imagery Resources

Define Terrain Resources  Explore Terrain Source Files  Define Terrain
Resources  Build and Modify Terrain Resources

Define Vector Resources  Explore Vector Source Files  Define a Vector
Resource  Build a Vector Resource  Define and Build the Remaining
Vector Resources

-[ Define Imagery Resources ]-

The following exercises guide you through exploring your source data
and defining and building imagery resources. Resources comprise the
most basic components of a Google Earth Enterprise Fusion database.

-[ Explore Imagery Source Files ]-

In this exercise, you learn to use the Preview panes in the Google
Earth Enterprise Fusion GUI to investigate imagery source files to be
sure they cover the desired area before you import them into Google
Earth Enterprise Fusion.

The following limitations apply to previewing data.

Certain display rule settings are ignored:  Simplification method
Suppress duplicates  Elevation/height  Highlight style  Road label
Road shield

Lines and polygons are drawn as lines only (not filled), so use Line
Color or Outline Color to see the colors of lines or polygons in the
Preview pane.

Labels appear in the assigned color, but scaling and centering are
ignored for labels.

Icons do appear in the Preview pane, but any style settings (color,
scale) are ignored.

Icons are not selectable, and their pop-up text is not displayed.

-[ To explore imagery source files: ]-

Click the Open Open Icon icon:.

Select /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery/usgsLanSat.tif and
click Open.  The image name appears in the Preview List pane. This is
called a layer (an individual source file or resource).  Layer in the
Preview List

Select the layer's checkbox.  A bounding box in the Preview pane
indicates the extent of the imagery in the selected file.  Bounding
Box in the Preview pane

Right-click the layer in the Preview List pane, and select Zoom to
Layer from the context menu.  The Preview pane zooms to show only the
region in the selected imagery file.  Preview Pane Zoom

Repeat the steps above, this time opening the i3SF15-meter.tif file.
When you select the checkbox next to this second layer, a bounding box
indicates the extent of the second layer within the first layer. You
can see the relationship of each area to the other in the Preview
pane.  Second Bounding Box in the Preview pane

When you finish viewing the imagery layers, right-click either layer
in the Preview List pane, and select Remove All Layers from the
context menu.  A message prompts you to confirm that you want to
remove all layers from the Preview panes.

Click the OK button.

Press Ctrl+R to reset the view to the whole Earth.

-[ Define Imagery Resources ]-

In this exercise, you create imagery resources from the imagery data
provided for this tutorial.

-[ To define an imagery resource: ]-

Select Tools > Asset Manager.

In the Asset Manager, click Imagery Resource Icon in the toolbar. The
Imagery Resource window appears.  Imagery Resource Window

Set the Acquisition Date to todayâ€™s date. This is required if you will
be creating a historical imagery project later.  The date you set for
the imagery Acquisition Date is visible in the Google Earth Client
when hovering the cursor over a tile. If you add this information to
the imagery at a later point, a rebuild of the imagery project is
required (as the date needs to be encoded in the JPEG tiles).  When
entering date information, the day or month values can be left blank.
For example:  2008-01-00 indicates January 2008  2008-00-00 indicates
2008  0000-00-00 indicates undefined  Leading zeros are not required
when entering dates.  When you work with real data, the acquisition
date should reflect the date the data was released. You can obtain
this information from the provider. However, for the purpose of
simplifying this tutorial, use the current date for all Acquisition
Date fields.

Select NASA Imagery from the Provider drop-down list. Notice that the
Provider drop-down list contains all of the providers you added
earlier.

Set the Mask Type to No Mask.  You are about to import the BlueMarble
source data. Since that data covers the entire world, there is no need
for a mask. That is, there is no fill data to mask out in the imagery.

Click Add.  The Open Source dialog opens to the
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery folder.  Imagery Open
Source Dialog

Select the bluemarble_4km.tif file, and click Open.

Select File > Save and navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery
folder you created in the previous chapter.

Enter the name BlueMarble for the resource, and click Save.

   Note: Your system administrator should have configured a tutorial
     environment for you to work on the tutorial lessons, keeping your
     practice data separate from your live production data. If you
     encounter an error message that tells you that a tutorial source
     file is not readable or you cannot save a resource, contact your
     system administrator or refer to the

     Google Earth Enterprise Administration Guide

      and
     configure the tutorial environment yourself before saving any
     practice data.
     When you finish using any of the asset editors (such as the
     Imagery Resource Editor used in this exercise), you can
     either leave it open and move it to the side or close it.
     Generally, if you know you have more work to do on a given
     asset, you can leave the editor open. If you know you are done
     with an asset for now, you can close it and get it out of the
     way.

Warning: Caution:

   When you are defining assets for your live production system, it is
  important to remember that you cannot delete or edit asset names
  after you save them.

In the Asset Manager, the name of the resource appears on the right
when you select the "/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery"folder in the asset
navigation tree.


-[ Build an Imagery Resource ]-

Before you can view the imagery resource in the Preview pane or
include it in a project, you must build it. You do not have to build
each resource right away, however. You can define several resources
and then build them all at the same time, if you prefer. There are
advantages and disadvantages to both approaches. You can develop your
own routine as you get more comfortable with Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion.

In this exercise, you will build the first resource right away.

-[ To build an imagery resource: ]-

In the Asset Manager, select the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery folder.
BlueMarble appears on the right with Current Version and  Current
State set to None, indicating that the resource has not yet been
built.

Right-click BlueMarble, and select Build from the context menu. The
status of the resource immediately changes to Queued and then to In
Progress.  Because imagery files are data-intensive, it can take some
time to build imagery resources.

Double-click the Current Version or Current State column for the
resource to view the progress of the build.

Right-click BlueMarble, and select Current Version Properties.  The
Version Properties dialog displays the most recent version of that
resource. You can expand the version tree to view the status of the
build in real time by clicking the + signs.

When you are done reviewing the information in the Version Properties
dialog, close that window.

When the BlueMarble resource finishes building, its

Current State

 column in the Asset Manager changes to

Succeeded

, and its

Current Version

 column changes to the date and time the most recent build was
started.

-[ Define and Build the Remaining Imagery Resources ]-

Now that you have defined and built one imagery resource, you can
define and build the remaining imagery resources provided for this
tutorial:

Resources            Name (Resources/Imagery/...)  Acquisition Date
Provider  Mask  Source File  SFBayAreaLanSat_20021010  Today's date
USGS Imagery  Auto Mask Tolerance: 2  Default for all other mask
values.  usgsLanSat.tif  i3_15Meter_20041010  Today's date  i3  Auto
Mask Default values.  i3SF15-meter.tif  SFHighResInset_20061010
Today's date  USGS Imagery  Auto Mask Default values.  usgsSFHiRes.tif

While the resources are building, the Asset Manager list looks
something like this:

  It could take several minutes to build all of the imagery resources.
When the builds are all complete, it looks like this:


-[ Preview the Imagery Resources ]-

After you successfully build the imagery resources, you can view some
of them in the Preview pane of the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion GUI.

-[ To preview imagery resources: ]-

In the Asset Manager, drag and drop the SFHighResInset resource from
the Asset Name column onto the Preview List pane.

Drag and drop the SFBayAreaLanSat resource onto the Preview List pane,
and then close the Asset Manager.  Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
displays the resources in the order in which they are listed in the
Preview List pane with the last asset on the list at the bottom of the
stack and the first asset on the list on top. In this case, the
SFHighResInset resource provides much higher resolution imagery for a
small area of the SFBayAreaLanSat resource, so you want SFHighResInset
to appear on top.

Check the box next to each resource in the Preview List pane to
display the associated imagery.  Bounding boxes appear where the
imagery is located on the base imagery; however, they appear to be
very small because the display level is so high.

Right-click SFBayAreaLanSat in the Preview List pane, and select Zoom
to Layer from the context menu.  The Preview pane zooms to the
outermost edges of the selected layer. Notice the bounding box for the
other resource.  Zoom to Layer FLanSatLayer

Right-click SFHighResInset in the Preview List pane, and select Zoom
to Layer from the context menu.  The Preview pane zooms to the
outermost edges of the selected layer.  Zoom to Layer SFHighResInset

To prepare for the next exercise, zoom out to a display level between
11 and 12 Zoom Level 11.6 to view more of the San Francisco bay area,
as shown in the following graphic.  To zoom out, you can either select
Zoom Drag Mode Icon and then click in the Preview pane and push the
mouse away from you, or roll the mouse wheel away from you.  Zoom Out

-[ Define Terrain Resources ]-

Defining terrain resources is very similar to defining imagery
resources. The following exercises guide you through defining and
building terrain resources.

-[ Explore Terrain Source Files ]-

As with imagery files, you can preview terrain source files to be sure
they cover the correct area before you convert them to resources.
Although you learned about previewing source files in a previous
exercise, this exercise gives you an opportunity to learn about more
about the preview tools.

-[ To explore terrain source files: ]-

Click Open File Icon.  The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Terrain folder.

Select SF_terrain.tif, and click Open.  Open Terrain Preview  The new
layer name appears in the Preview List pane unchecked.  Unchecked
Terrain Preview

Select Enable All Layers from the Edit menu to check the boxes for all
layers.  A bounding box appears for the terrain layer.

Zoom out a bit to see the entire bounding box.  The Preview pane
displays a bounding box for terrain source data, not the actual
terrain imagery. You must define and build terrain resources to be
able to see a preview of the actual terrain.  Preview All Terrain

Right-click SF_terrain, and select Zoom to Layer from the context
menu.  This fills the Preview pane with the city of San Francisco. The
high-resolution imagery inset, SFHighResInset, is still part of this
view, and the SFBayAreaLanSat provides the background imagery.  Zoom
In To Terrain

Use the toolbar buttons and/or your mouse wheel to zoom in and out to
explore the terrain on the underlying imagery.

Right-click any layer and select Remove All Layers.  A message prompts
you to confirm that you want to remove all layers.

Click the OK button.  All of the layers disappear from the Preview
panes. You can leave the preview pane zoomed in to prepare for an
upcoming exercise, even though the imagery is too close to make out
any details at this point.

-[ Define Terrain Resources ]-

In this exercise, you create terrain resources from the terrain data
provided for this tutorial.

-[ To define a terrain resource: ]-

Open the Asset Manager, and click Terrain Resource Icon on the
toolbar.  The Terrain Resource Editor appears.

Set the acquisition date to todayâ€™s date in year-month-day format by
clicking each section of the date and enter the values.

Select USGS Terrain from the Provider drop-down list.

Set the Mask Type (under Mask Options) to Have Mask.  The mask file
for your import must be located in the same folder as the source file,
and the file name must match the name of the source file with -mask
appended. For example, in the tutorial files provided, the source file
is called gtopo30_4km.tif, and its mask file is named gtopo30_4km-
mask.tif. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion automatically applies the
mask file by reference to the source file.  You can use the Have Mask
option for resources that contain one source file only.

Accept the Elevation Units default, Meters.

Click Add.  The Open Source dialog opens to the
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Terrain folder.

Select gtopo30_4km.tif, and click the Open button.  Open Terrain
Resource  The selected file appears on the Source File(s) list.

Select Save from the File menu.  The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrain folder you created in
Setting Up the Tutorial.

Enter the name WorldTopography for the resource, and click Save.

Close the Terrain Resource Editor dialog.  The name of the resource
appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrainfolder in the asset navigation tree in
Asset Manager.

-[ To define another terrain resource: ]-

In the Asset Manager, click Terrain Resource Icon on the toolbar.  The
Terrain Resource Editor appears.

Set the acquisition date to todayâ€™s date in year-month-day format by
clicking each section of the date and entering the values.

Select USGS Terrain from the Provider drop-down list.

Set the Mask Type (under Mask Options) to Auto Mask, and accept the
default mask settings:  Feather: 100  Hole Size: 0  NoData: -99999:0
(For details about masking, see the Mask Options section in the
Defining Resources chapter of the Reference Guide.)

Accept the Elevation Units default, Meters.

Click Add.  The Open Source dialog appears.

From the /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Terrain folder, select
SF_terrain.tif, and click Open.  The selected file appears on the
Source File(s) list.

Select Save from the File menu.  The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrain folder you created in
Setting Up the Tutorial.

Enter the name SFTerrain for the resource, and click Save.

Close the Terrain Resource Editor dialog.  The name of the resource
appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrainfolder in the asset navigation tree in
Asset Manager.

-[ Build and Modify Terrain Resources ]-

As with imagery resources, in this exercise, you will build the
terrain resources right away.

Note: The WorldTopography terrain resource is quite large and could
  take up to 30 minutes to build, depending on the speed of your CPU.
  It is a good idea to start this exercise close to lunch time or just
  before you attend a meeting, so it can build while you are busy
  doing something else.

-[ To build and modify a terrain resource: ]-

In the Asset Manager, select the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrain folder.
The terrain resources appear on the right with the Current Version and
the Current State set to None, indicating that the resources have not
yet been built.

Right-click WorldTopography, and select Build from the context menu.
The status of the resource changes to Queued and then to In Progress.

Right-click SFTerrain, and select Build from the context menu.  The
status of the SFTerrain resource changes to Queued until the
WorldTopography resource finishes building and then changes to In
Progress.  When each resource finishes building, the Current State
column in the Asset Manager changes to Succeeded, and its Current
Version column changes to the date and time the most recent build was
started.  Drag the SFTerrain resource into the Preview List pane, and
check the box next to it.

Right-click SFTerrain, and select Zoom to Layer.  The bounding box for
the terrain resource appears in the Preview pane, and the grayscale
terrain imagery appears in the bounding box.  Since the Preview pane
in Google Earth Enterprise Fusion is meant for preview purposes only,
it does not render terrain in 3D like Google Earth EC. Instead, it
renders a grayscale interpretation of the terrain. The lighter pixels
represent the higher elevations, and the darker pixels represent lower
elevations. For this reason, the Preview pane is not useful for
comparing elevation values from different resources.  image25  Because
the background is a very low-resolution image, it is hard to determine
what you are looking at. The solution to this problem is to add high-
resolution imagery to the Preview pane to give you a frame of
reference.

In the Asset Manager, navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery, and
drag SFBayAreaLanSat to the Preview List pane, and check the box next
to it.  The higher-resolution imagery appears under the terrain
imagery, so you can get a better idea of where the terrain is located.
The mask automatically generated by Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
removes all of the fill data in the terrain resource, using the
feather value specified in the Terrain Resource Editor.  The preview
shows that the default feather of 100 pixels is far too aggressive,
removing much of the terrain data around the coastline. In a real-
world situation, you can provide your own mask for the data to be sure
you can see every detail around the coastline. For this tutorial,
however, simply adjust the feather value for the mask that Google
Earth Enterprise Fusion generates automatically.

Double-click the for the SFTerrain resource in the Asset Manager.  The
Terrain Resource Editor appears with all of the SFTerrain resourceâ€™s
settings.

Change the Feather value to 5.

Select Save from the File menu.  Google Earth Enterprise Fusion saves
the terrain resource with the same name.

Build the SFTerrain resource again.

Drag and drop the SFTerrain resource onto the Preview List pane.  The
new version of the resource appears at the bottom of the list with a
number after the resource name to distinguish it from other versions
of the same resource.

Uncheck the box next to the original version of the resource, and
check the box next to the modified version.  The Preview pane displays
the modified version of the resource.  Because the second version of
the resource is listed below the imagery resource in the Preview List
pane, it appears below the imagery in the Preview pane. Because of the
list order, the imagery resource is actually obscuring the terrain
resource. All you can see is the mask.

Right-click any layer in the Preview List pane, and select Remove All
Layers from the context menu.  A message prompts you to confirm that
you want to remove all layers.

Click OK.  All of the layers disappear from the Preview panes.

In the Asset Manager, navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Terrain, and
drag and drop the new version of the SFTerrain resource onto the
Preview List pane, and check the box next to it.

Navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery, and drag SFBayAreaLanSat to
the Preview List pane, and check the box next to it.  Now you can see
the preview of the terrain over the imagery. With a feather value of
5, the mask removes the fill data but removes much less of the real
data, allowing the actual terrain data to be visible out to the edges
of the coastline.  image26

When you finish examining the preview, right-click either layer in the
Preview List pane, and select Remove All Layers from the context menu.
A message prompts you to confirm that you want to remove all layers.

Click OK.  All of the layers disappear from the Preview panes.

Press Ctrl+R to reset the view to the whole Earth.

-[ Define Vector Resources ]-

The following exercises guide you through the process of defining and
building a vector resource for California highway data.

-[ Explore Vector Source Files ]-

As with imagery and terrain files, you can preview vector source files
to be sure they provide the data you want before you convert them to
resources. This exercise provides an opportunity for you to use some
additional preview tools.

-[ To explore vector source files: ]-

Click the Open File Icon button.  The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Vector folder.
Open File Dialog

Select california_roads_line.shp, and click Open.  The layer name
appears in the Preview List pane.

Check the box next to california_roads_line.  The highway and road
lines appear on California. (It appears below in bright green; it
might appear in a different color on your screen.)  Preview
california_roads_line

Right-click california_roads_line, and select Zoom to Layer to zoom
into the San Francisco Bay area to view the road features.  Zoom to
Layer california_roads_line

Make sure the layer is selected (highlighted) in the Preview List
pane. Then, with Select Mode Icon selected on the toolbar, drag a
selector rectangle around the City of San Francisco.  The selected
area is highlighted (yellow), and the data fields that correspond to
the selected area appear in the Data List pane.  You can scroll
through this data and sort it by columns to explore the values of each
field to determine the potential attributes to use in the filters you
set up in Configuring Display Rules.

When you finish exploring the data, right-click the
california_roads_line, and select Remove Layer to clear the Preview
panes.  A message prompts you to confirm that you want to remove the
layer.

Click OK.  The layer disappears from the Preview panes.

Press Ctrl+R to reset the view to the whole Earth.

-[ Define a Vector Resource ]-

In this exercise, you define vector resources from the vector data
provided for this tutorial.

-[ To define a vector resource: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu.  The Asset Manager appears.

Click Vector Resource Icon on the toolbar.  The Vector Resource Editor
appears.  Vector Resource Editor

Set the acquisition date to todayâ€™s date in year-month-day format by
clicking each section of the date and enter the values.

Select USGS Maps from the Provider drop-down list.

Click Add.  The Open Source dialog opens to the
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Vector folder.  Vector Open Source
Dialog

Select the california_roads_line.shp file, and click Open.  The
selected file appears in the Source File(s) list.  Vector Resource
Editor Full

Select Save from the File menu.  The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vector folder you created in
Setting Up the Tutorial.

Enter the name CAHighways for the resource, and click Save.

Close the Vector Resource Editor dialog.  The name of the resource
appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vectorfolder in the asset navigation tree in
Asset Manager.

-[ Build a Vector Resource ]-

As with the imagery and terrain resources, in this exercise, you will
build the vector resource right away. In fact, you must build vector
resources before you can include them in projects.

-[ To build a vector resource: ]-

In the Asset Manager, select the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vector folder.
CAHighways appears on the right with the Current Version and the
Current State set to None, indicating that the resource has not yet
been built.

Right-click CAHighways, and select Build from the context menu.  The
status of the resource changes to Queued and then to In Progress. When
the CAHighways resource finishes building, its Current State column in
the Asset Manager changes to Succeeded, and its Current Version column
changes to the date and time the most recent build was started.

-[ Define and Build the Remaining Vector Resources ]-

Now that you have defined and built one vector resource, you can
define and build the remaining vector resources provided for this
tutorial.

Follow the steps in

Defining a Vector Resource

 to define resources for the following vector source files:

CAPopPlaces  Acquisition Date: todayâ€™s date  Provider: USGS POIs
Source File: california_popplaces.csv  Name: CA_POIs

USCensusbyCounty  Acquisition Date: todayâ€™s date  Provider: GNIS/US
Census Bureau  Source File: us_counties_census.shp  Name:
US_Population

After defining each resource, right-click it and select

Build

 from the context menu. By the time you finish defining the last
resource, the other builds should all be complete.

When Google Earth Enterprise Fusion finishes building the last
resource, close the Asset Manager by clicking the close box (

X

) in the top right corner, and go on to the

next lesson

.
