
Segmenting Large Imagery Files

Google Earth Enterprise Fusion does not allow you to import raw
imagery source files larger than 80 GB. (Raw size = number of pixels
width * number of pixels height * 3.) Therefore, if you have an
imagery source file that is larger than 80 GB, you can split it into
two or more source files using the "gesplitkhvr" command.

The "gesplitkhvr" tool produces a grid of image files designated as
rows and columns. For example, if you specify two rows by two columns,
the image is split into four smaller files. If you create a separate
resource for each resulting source file, it would look like this in
the Preview pane:

  However, you can reconnect the split images by adding them all to a
single resource, which would look like this in the Preview pane:

  .. rubric:: To split a large source file into multiple smaller
files:

At the command prompt, change to the folder that contains the tutorial
imagery source files by entering:  cd
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery

Convert a .tif file to a .khvr file by entering:  gevirtualraster -o
path/virtual_raster.khvr usgsSFHiRes.tif  where path is the path to
the folder where you want to save the resulting .khvr file. (See
Creating Imagery Mosaics for more information about the
gevirtualraster tool.)  Note: The path where you save the resulting
.khvr file must be on a known volume. (See “geconfigureassetroot
--editvolumes” in the Command reference.)

Change to the folder where you stored the virtual_raster.khvr (the
value of path in step 2) by entering:  cd path

Split the .khvr file into a 4x4 grid (16 image files) with a 10-pixel
overlap among all of the files by entering:  gesplitkhvr --rows 4
--cols 4 --overlap 10 virtual_raster.khvr  The names of the resulting
files appear on the screen as they are created. The file names are
constructed from the name of the original file (virtual_raster), a row
and column designation for each file (starting with -R1C3), and the
.khvr extension.

Now you can import the 16 resulting image files into a resource.
