
Create composite globes and maps

-[ Contents ]-

Introduction


Creating composite maps and globes


Extracting layers from a composite map or globe

-[ Introduction ]-

A composite globe (".glc") is an assembly of layers from existing
portable globes or maps. A portable globe or map stores all the
geospatial data available within your specified area of interest—your
cut—including all high-resolution imagery, terrain, vector data, KML
files, and searchable point of interest (POI) locations. Outside the
specified area of interest, the globe or map stores only low-
resolution imagery and terrain. You specify the levels of resolution
when you cut the globe or map.

When you create a composite globe or map, you define your viewing area
using a KML polygon, select layers, and, for globes, specify base
globe options. One of the key benefits of using composite maps and
globes is that you can apply layers that use different cuts or regions
of interest, then assemble them to create one single portable map or
globe.

For example, you may want to create a composite map for a hiking trip.
You might cut a road map using one region of interest and then cut
imagery and a park map of the hiking trail using additional regions of
interest. Ordinarily, cuts from map databases would result in separate
".glm" files. By assembling the ".glm" files into a composite ".glc"
file, the result is a single portable map.


-[ Creating composite maps and globes ]-

You can create composite files of portable globes and maps with the

Assembly tool

 feature of the Google Earth Enterprise (GEE) Server. You provide a
KML polygon definition to identify the area of interest. This polygon
not only defines the viewing area, but is used by Fusion to create a
localized search database.

You select 2D or 3D layers to add to the composite file from any of
the cut maps or globes that are available in the
"/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes" directory. In addition, for
globes, you specify a base globe.

New ".glc" files are added to the default
"/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes" directory. If you want to
change the location of your portable files directory, see

Serving a globe or map from GEE Server

.

If you want to extract the 2D or 3D layers from a composite .glc file,
use the Disassembly tool, specifying a target directory for the
extracted files.

-[ To assemble a composite map or globe: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Dashboard to view information about the portable files
registered on and published to the Server.

Click the Settings button in the top right of the window and choose
Glc Assembly from the Tools menu. The GLC Assembly tool window
appears.

Enter a name for the offline map or globe.  The name defines the file
name for your composite map or globe. Composite maps and globes are
created as .``glc`` files. Spaces, slashes, and double dots (..) will
be converted to underscores in the saved map or globe name.

Enter a description to be associated with the composite file.  The
description appears in the list of portable files in Portable when you
click the Folder icon and also on the Dashboard page in the GEE Server
admin console.

Provide a KML polygon to define your area of interest, including the
definition of your localized search database.

Choose either 2D or 3D to see a list of the available layers from the
maps and globes you have available in the
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes directory.

Click the Layers drop-down list to select a layer to add to your
composite file. The selected layer appears as Layer 1. Check the Use
Search? box to include a localized search database with this layer.

To add more layers, click the Layers drop-down list and continue to
select from the available maps or globes.  Select the layers in the
order that you want them to appear in your portable globe or map. If
you need to remove a layer, click delete.  GEE Assembly tool  When you
have no more layers available, the Layers drop-down list indicates
that all available layers are in use.

To select a base globe option, click the Base globe options drop-down
list and choose a portable globe, then click Yes to use the imagery
and terrain data for the selected base globe.


If your base globe is a portable file created using Portable Server
4.4 or earlier, click

Yes

 next to

Old (4.4) globe

. This option only affects the imagery layer within older ".glb"
files.

Click

Assemble Glc

.

-[ Extracting layers from a composite map or globe ]-

If you want to extract the 2D or 3D layers from a composite ".glc"
file, you use the

Glc Disassembly

 tool, specifying a target directory for the extracted files.

-[ To disassemble a composite file: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Dashboard to view information about the portable files
registered on and published to the Server.

Click the Settings button in the top right of the window and choose
Glc Disassembly from the Tools menu. The GLC disassembly tool window
appears.

Click the Glc path drop-down list to select a composite file to
disassemble.  By default, the Glc path is the
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes directory, where all portable
maps and globes are stored.

Enter a new output directory in the text box.

Click Disassemble glc.  The layers in the composite file are extracted
and are moved to the output directory that you specified. If you
included a base globe, this portable file is also output to the same
directory.  GEE Disassembly tool
