
Manage snippet profiles

You can customize your database view and available features in Google
Earth Enterprise Client (EC) by setting up

snippet profiles

 in the the GEE Server admin console.

Snippets

 are different properties and options that may be specified for a
Fusion 3D database. When you connect to a database in Google Earth EC,
snippets control its appearance and behavior. GEE Server lets you set
your snippet preferences, then combine snippets into a

snippet profile

, which can then be applied to any database that you publish. The
snippet profile settings then modify the database's behavior and
appearance when you connect to it in Google Earth EC.

For example, many of these preferences (or

snippets

) apply to display characteristics, such as showing or hiding
different elements such as the Google logo or your own co-brand logo.
You can also apply other settings, such as caching data on disk,
enabling authentication, hiding user data in the

About

 dialog, and specifying a reverse geocoder server URL.

Tip: Google Earth EC recognizes only the settings made by the first
  database that you connect to in Google Earth EC. This applies when
  you are connecting to multiple databases.

Caution:

 If you are working with multiple GEE Server users on multiple
workstations, it is important to remember that snippet profiles can be
accessed by all users at the same time. Be sure to coordinate with any
other users to avoid overwriting snippet profile settings.

Creating a snippet profile

Editing snippet settings

Table of snippet settings

Modifying snippet profiles

Deleting snippet profiles

-[ To create a snippet profile: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  Note: If you do not know your username and password, contact
your Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Snippet profiles to display your snippet profiles.

Click Create New. The Create new snippet profile dialog appears.  GEE
Server Create Snippet Profile dialog

Enter a name for the new snippet profile and click the Create button.
The snippet profile name appears in red in the Existing snippet
profile list and the Snippet editor opens.

-[ To edit snippet settings: ]-

Click the Add a new snippet set to the profile drop-down to display
the list of available snippets.  GEE Server snippet profile list

Select a snippet from the list. The selected snippet options are added
to the current snippet profile and appear in the profile list.  GEE
Server snippet examples  You can select some snippets multiple times
per profile, For example, you may want to add more than one customized
logo to be displayed in Google Earth EC. For those snippets that
cannot be added to a profile more than once, such as disable
authentication, the snippet name is grayed out and a checkmark appears
next to it in the snippet list.  GEE Server snippet profile list-
greyed

Edit the snippet profile to specify values for the snippets. See the
following Snippet Settings table for snippet settings.  When you add a
snippet, you must enter values in the empty fields; if you want the
snippet string to be empty, which is the default setting, you should
not add the snippet and edit its values.

When you have finished adding snippets and specifying values for your
snippet profile, click the Save changes button.  Now you can apply
your snippet profile to any 3D database you publish.

-[ Snippet Settings ]-

The following table lists the syntax for all of the available dbRoot
snippets.

        Snippet Name  Purpose  Syntax  Notes  bbs_server_in fo
Specify BBS Server info.  base_url—UR L of the server, including
protocol, domain name, and port. file_submit_p ath—Path on server
where files can be submitted. name—Name that will be displayed in
context menu to user. Must be translated. post_wizard_p ath—Path on
server where wizard can be found    client_option s  Disable disk
caching in Google Earth EC.  disable_disk_ cache  Default value is
False  ``cobrand_info` `  Add custom logo to Google Earth EC display
window.  logo_url—UR L of image to use as logo screen_size —Positive
value <=1 specifies scale with screen. tie_point—C ontrols the
reference point in the overlay x_coord.is_re lative—If True, the
coordinate is relative to the screen x_coord.value ``—Coordinate value
Interpretation depends on value set in ``x_coord.is_re lative.
y_coord.is_re lative—If True, the coordinate is relative to the screen
y_coord.value ``—Coordinate value Interpretation depends on value set
in ``y_coord.is_re lative.  logo_url can be remote or local.
screen_size makes logo scalable with screen by forcing its width to
occupy a fraction of the screen. For example, a value of 0.25 sets the
given logo to occupy 25% of the screen.  default_web_p age_intl_url
Default location of web page in Google Earth EC.  https://www.g
oogle.com/?hl=% 251  Can be set to an internal IP or host name
address. Default web page value in GEE is an empty string.
disable_authe ntication  Disable session cookie-based authentication.
boolean  Indicates that this database does not require session cookie-
based authentication.  earth_intl_ur l  Location of international page
for Google Earth.  http://earth. google.com    ``elevation_ser vice
_base_url` `  Terrain elevation service URL.    If field is empty,
service is unavailable.  hide_user_dat a  True = Suppress user name in
the Help -> About window. False = Display user name.  boolean  Default
is False.  keyboard_shor tcuts_url  URL for keyboard shortcuts page.
If not specified, this URL is built from user_guide_intl _url as
user_guide_intl _url"ug_keyboar d.html"    Can be set to an internal
IP or host name address.  model    compressed_ne gative_altitude
_threshold—Th reshold below which negative altitudes are compressed
elevation_bia s—Elevation bias flattening— Planet flattening. Default
value is 1.0/298.2572235 63 (from WGS84) negative_alti tude_exponent_b
ias—Bias for negative altitude so that ocean tiles can be streamed to
older clients radius—Mean planet radius. Default value is the WGS84
model for earth    privacy_polic y_url  URL for privacy policy.  ``IP
address or  host name``  Can be set to an internal IP or host name
address.  release_notes _url  URL for release notes.  ``IP address or
host name``  Can be set to an internal IP or host name address.
reverse_geoco der _protocol_v ersion  Reverse geocoder protocol
version.  ``numeric value ``  Default is 3 which is the protocol
supported by newer clients.  reverse_geoco der_url  Reverse geocoder
server URL.      show_signin_b utton  If True, shows the signin button
in the top-right corner of the display window.  boolean
startup_tips_ intl_url  Localize international URL from which to load
startup tips for Earth 7.0 or higher.      support_answe r_intl_url
Localize international URL for support answers.  https://suppo
rt.google.com/e arth/#topic=436 3013    support_cente r_intl_url
Localize international URL for the support center.  http://suppor
t.google.com/ea rth/    support_reque st_intl_url  Localize
international URL for support requests.  https://suppo rt.google.com/e
arth/#topic=236 4258    support_topic _intl_url  Localize
international URL for support topics.  http://www.go ogle.com/earth/
learn/    swoop_paramet ers  Controls how far from a target swooping
should start.  start_dist_in _meters    ``tutorial_url` `  URL for
tutorial page. If URL is not specified, this URL is built from
user_guide_in tl_url as user_guide_in tl_url + "tutor ials/index.html
".  http://www.go ogle.com/earth/ learn/    use_ge_logo  Shows/hides
Google Earth logo in lower right corner of display.  boolean  Default
is True.  user_guide_in tl_url  Localize international URL for
documentation.  http://www.go ogle.com/earth/ learn/  Defaults to
local PDF file for Google Earth EC. Can be set to an internal IP or
hostname address.  valid_databas e  Validates the database name and
URL.  ``database_name ``—Human-readab le name of database, for
example, "Primary Database" or "Digital Globe Database"
``database_url` `—URL of server. This can include a path and a query,
and must be a well-formed, absolute URL

-[ To modify a snippet profile: ]-

To change the snippets in a snippet profile, click the snippet profile
name in the Existing snippet profiles list that you want to edit.  The
Snippet editor appears with the name of your selected snippet profile
and the list of included snippets.  All previously selected snippets
can be edited with new options and settings.

To add a snippet, click the drop-down list to select a new snippet.

To delete a snippet from your profile, click delete in the snippet
settings.  GEE Server Snippet editor: delete snippet

Click Save Changes.

-[ To delete a snippet profile: ]-

Hover your cursor over the name of the snippet profile that you want
to delete. The delete option appears.  GEE Server Snippet profiles:
delete snippet profile  A message prompts you to confirm that you want
to delete the selected snippet profile.

Click Yes.  The snippet profile disappears from the Existing snippet
profiles list.
