
Defining and Building Databases

The following exercises guide you through defining and building a
database, using the projects you created in the previous lesson.

Define a Database

Build a Database

-[ Define a Database ]-

When you define a database, you specify one or more Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion projects that Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
combines into a single self-contained world that is flyable in Google
Earth EC. You can select up to three projects for a database--one of
each type:

Vector

Imagery

Terrain

Because the majority of your efforts involve defining and configuring
different projects for inclusion in your database, it is relatively
fast to define a database once the projects are created. You simply
select the projects that comprise the database and give it a name.

-[ To define a database: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Click Database Icon in the toolbar. The Database Editor appears with
no projects selected.  Database Editor With No Projects Selected

Click New Icon in the Vector Project row.

Navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector.  Note: The selection in the
Type drop-down list near the bottom of this dialog determines the type
of projects that appear on the list. Vector Project is automatically
selected, so only vector resources appear on the list.

Select the CARoads project and click Open. The CA Roads project
appears in the Database Editor next to Vector Project.

Click New Icon in the Imagery Project row and select
Projects/Imagery/SFBayArea.

Click New Icon in the Terrain Project row and select
Projects/Terrain/SFTerrain.  All three projects are now listed in the
Database Editor window:  All Projects Listed Database Editor

Select File > Save and navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder.

Enter SFHighways as the name of your database, and click Save.  The
name of the database is displayed when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Databasesfolder in the asset navigation tree.

-[ Build a Database ]-

Once the database has been defined, it is ready to be built.

Note: Note:

   If you had not built the projects included in this database
  previously, the following process would build them in the course of
  building the database. As you might expect, the database build
  process takes much longer if it is building all of the projects in
  the database at once. However, since Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
  gives you the option to build each project as soon as you finish
  making modifications or when you build the database, you can
  determine the best work style for yourself.

-[ To build a database: ]-

In the Asset Manager, select the /ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder.
SFHighways appears on the right with the Current Version and the
Current State set to None, indicating that the database has not yet
been built.

Right-click SFHighways and select Build. The status of the database
immediately changes to Queued and then to In Progress.

Double-click the Current Version or Current State column of the
SFHighways to view the progress of the build.  The Version Properties
dialog displays the most recent version of that database. You can
expand the version tree to view the status of the build in real time
by clicking the + signs.

When Google Earth Enterprise Fusion finishes building the database,
its

Current State

 column in the Asset Manager changes to

Succeeded

, and

its Current

 Version column changes to the date and time the most recent build was
started.

Close the Asset Manager by clicking the close box (

X

) in the top right corner, and go on to the

next lesson

.
