
Configuring Display Rules for Point Data

Point data can provide useful information about points of interest
(POIs) around the globe or even in your home town. Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion allows you to configure the display rules for point
data to distinguish different types of information. This lesson guides
you through the process of graphically distinguishing the popular
places in California using display rules.

Define, Configure, and Build a Vector Project

Define and Build an Imagery Project

Define, Build, Push, and Publish a Database for the Point Data

View Your Database in Google Earth EC

-[ Define, Configure, and Build a Vector Project ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of defining, configuring,
and building a vector project using a resource you created in

Defining and Building Resources

.

-[ To define and build a vector project and configure display rules
for points: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu.  The Asset Manager appears.

Click Vector Project Icon on the toolbar. The Vector Project Editor
appears.

Click New Icon. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vector folder.

Select CA_POIs (a resource that you built in Defining and Building
Resources), and click Open. The CA_POIs resource appears in the Vector
Project Editor.  CA_POIs Resource

Right-click

CA_POIs

 and select

Configure Display Rules

 from the context menu. The Display Rules dialog appears with the
Feature tab in the foreground and the

default select all

 rule highlighted.

Specify the geometry characteristics of the POIs:

For Draw Features As, select Points.

For Simplification Method, select Representative Subset Per Tile.

For Choose, accept the default, 50% points.

For Min Points, enter 50.

For Max Points, enter 200.

Check the box next to Suppress Duplicate Points.

Under Elevation/Height, set Mode to Clamp to Ground.

On the right side of the dialog, check the box next to

Draw Label

. For

Visibility

, accept the default range,

5

 through

24

. Do not make any changes under

Label Properties

, This area allows you to specify the content and appearance of a text
label for each POI. However, there are so many POIs in California that
the view in Google Earth EC would be too crowded.

Check the box next to

Draw Icon

 and then:

Click the icon pair. The Icons dialog appears.  Icons Dialog

Scroll down, if necessary, and select blue_star, and click OK.  A
yellow star appears next to Highlight, and a blue star appears next to
Normal. The result of this setting is that Google Earth EC displays a
blue star for each POI, and when you mouse over the star (highlight
it), it turns yellow.

For both Highlight and Normal, accept the default color, white.

For Highlight, accept the default scale, 1.

For Normal, change the scale to 0.89.  The result of these settings is
that when you mouse over a star, Google Earth EC displays the yellow
(highlighted) star a little larger than the blue star.

In the

Balloon

 section, select

Text

, and then click the empty text field. The Label Format dialog
appears.

Select COUNTY from the Insert Field drop-down list.  «COUNTY» appears
in the text box under Popup Text.  Note: You can use some basic HTML
tags to format the Label text, if desired.

To the left of «

COUNTY

» enter

<b>

. To the right of «

COUNTY

» enter

</b><br/><br/>

, and press

Enter

. Adding this HTML code formats the name of the county as bold,
followed by two line breaks to separate it from the text that follows
(next step).

Select

NAME

 from the

Insert Field

 drop-down list. «

NAME

» appears on the next line of the text box. To the right of «

NAME

» enter

<br/><br/>

, and press

Enter

. On the next line, enter

Latitude:

 , and then select

LATITUDE

 from the

Insert Field

 drop-down menu. To the right of «

LATITUDE

» enter

<br/><br/>

, and press

Enter

. On the next line, enter

Longitude:

 , and then select

LONGITUDE

 from the

Insert Field

 drop-down menu.

Click

OK

 For

Style

, select

Default

 from the drop-down list. Check the box next to

Directions

 to include “To here” and “From here” links in the description balloon
in Google Earth EC. Click the

Text Color

 button, and select a medium blue. Click the

Background Color

 button, and select a light yellow. Click the

OK

 button. You return to the Vector Project Editor.

Select

File > Save

. The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the "ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector"folder. Enter

CA_POIs

 as the name of your project, and click

Save

. The new project appears in the Asset Manager when you select

ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector

 in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click

CA_POIs

, and select

Build

 from the context menu. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the
project.

-[ Define and Build an Imagery Project ]-

Although you can build and publish a database that includes a vector
project only, you cannot connect directly to your server with Google
Earth EC to view that data unless your database also includes an
imagery project. If you publish a database that includes a vector
project only, you must use the

Add Database

 command on the

File

 menu in Google Earth EC to add the database to the base imagery after
logging in to "kh.google.com" or another server that serves a database
that includes imagery.

This exercise walks you through the process of defining and building
an imagery project using a resource you created in

Defining and Building Resources

. Since the focus of this lesson is on polygon display rules, it is
not desirable to spend a lot of time building a large imagery project.
So this exercise walks you through creating a small and simple imagery
project.

Note: Note:

   If you have already completed this exercise in

  Configuring Display Rules for Polygon Data

  , skip this exercise and move on to

  Define, Build, Push, and Publish a Database for the Point Data

  .

-[ To define and build an imagery project: ]-

In the Asset Manager, click Imagery Project Icon on the toolbar. The
Imagery Project Editor appears.  Imagery Project Editor

Click New Icon.  The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery folder.

Select BlueMarble, and click Open.  The BlueMarble resource appears in
the Imagery Project Editor.

Select File > Save.  The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Imageryfolder.

Enter BlueMarble as the name of your project, and click Save.  The new
project appears in the Asset Manager when you select
ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Imagery in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click BlueMarble, and select Build from the context menu.
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the project.

-[ Define, Build, Push, and Publish a Database for the Point Data ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of defining, building,
pushing, and publishing a database using the projects you created in
the previous exercise.

-[ To define, build, and push a database: ]-

Click Database Icon on the toolbar. The Database Editor appears with
no projects selected.

Click New Icon next to Vector Project. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector.

Select the CA_POIs project and click Open. The CA_POIs project appears
in the Database Editor next to Vector Project.

Repeat steps 2 through 4 to add BlueMarble as the imagery project.
You do not need to add a terrain project for this exercise. Both
projects appear on the list.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Databasesfolder.

Enter CA_POIs for the name of your database, and click Save. The name
of the database appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Databasesfolder in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click CA_POIs, and select Build from the context menu. Google
Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the database.

Right-click CA_POIs, and select Push from the context menu. The Push
Database dialog appears.

Select the server association on the Server Associations drop-down
list. The most recent version of the selected database is the default
selection on the Version drop-down list.

Click the Push button. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion runs the process
of pushing the database to the Google Earth Enterprise Server, and
displays a success message when it is done.

-[ To publish a database: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials:  Username: geapacheuser
Password: geeadmin

Click Databases to display the list of databases pushed to the server.

Check the box next to the database you want to publish. The Publish
button on the Databases page appears.  GEE Server Database Publish

Click Publish. The Publish dialog appears.

Specify a Publish point, where the database will be accessible from.
For example, if you specify CA_POIs-v001, it will be accessible from
myserver.mydomainname.com/CA_POIs-v001.  To learn more about the
options available in the Publish dialog, see Create Search tabs,
Snippet profiles, and WMS.

Click the Publish button. The Databases page updates to indicate the
published status of your database.  GEE Server Database Published List

-[ View Your Database in Google Earth EC ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of viewing your database
in Google Earth EC.

-[ To view your database: ]-

Launch Google Earth EC. The Select Server dialog appears.

Enter or select the host name or IP address of your server in the
Server field, and specify the Publish point that you selected when you
published your map database. For example, if you specify CA_POIs-v001,
it will be accessible from myserver.mydomainname.com/CA_POIs-v001.

Click the Sign In button.

Zoom in to the west coast of the US.  When you zoom in enough, Google
Earth EC displays blue stars all over California. The closer you zoom
in, the more spread out the stars are and the more stars you can see.
When you mouse over a star, it turns yellow. When you click a star, a
description balloon displays the information you specified in the
format you defined in the Display Rules dialog.  Note: If you cannot
see the vector data, make sure the check box next to CA_POIs in the
Layers panel is checked.
