
Importing and Exporting Style Templates

Often when you define the display rules for one set of data, you can
use the same display rules (with minor tweaking) for other similar
sets of data. In fact, to make your data look consistent across
different layers, you probably want to use the same display rules. To
do so, you can simply export the display rules as a style template
then import that style template into other projects.

For example, if a project contains two resources with different
providers, and you want the data to look the same except for the
copyright information, you can define the display rules for one
resource, export the display rules as a template, and then import the
template for the other resource. Another example is that you might
want to define display rules for a small set of data and then use
those same rules on a larger set of data. There are many more
circumstances in which you can save time by using style templates.

This lesson guides you through the process of defining display rules
for a small set of data (the state of California) and then exporting
those rules as a style template. In a subsequent exercise, you import
that same style template for a larger set of data (the entire US).
Because you already defined display rules for population by county in
the state of California in the last chapter, most of the work is
already done.

Note: If you have not completed

  Configuring Display Rules for Polygon Data

  , you must complete at least the first three exercises in that
  lesson (

  Define and Build a Vector Resource Using Polygon Data

  ,

  Define, Configure, and Build a Vector Project

  , and

  Define and Build an Imagery Project

  ) before continuing with this lesson.

Export the Display Rules

Import the Template

Define, Build, Push, and Publish a Database for Your Data

View Your Data in Google Earth EC

-[ Export the Display Rules ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu.  The Asset Manager appears.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector folder you created in
Configuring Display Rules for Polygon Data.

Double-click CACountyPopulation to open it in the Vector Project
Editor.

Right-click CACountyPopulation, and select Export Configuration as
Template from the context menu.  The Export Template dialog appears.

Navigate to your home folder, click Create New Folder Icon to create a
new folder, and name the new folder templates.

Open the templates folder, enter Counties in the File name field, and
click Save.  You return to the Vector Project Editor.

Close the Vector Project Editor.

-[ Import the Template ]-

This exercise walks you through importing the template you created in
the previous exercise into a new project.

-[ To define a project and import a template: ]-

Click Vector Project Icon on the toolbar. The Vector Project Editor
appears.

Click New Icon. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vector folder.

Select USPopulation and click Open.  The US Population resource
appears in the Vector Project Editor.

Right-click USPopulation, and select Import Configuration from
Template from the context menu.  The Import Template dialog appears.

Navigate to the templates folder in your home folder (where you saved
the template in the previous exercise).

Select Counties.khdsp.

Check the box next to Apply display rules but not Apply legend
settings at the bottom of the dialog.  If you check the box next to
Apply legend settings, this step would apply all of the legend
settings for the project from which the template was created to this
project, including changing the name of the layer. (See Chapter 5 in
the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion Reference Guide for details about
these settings.)

Click Open.  You return to the Vector Project Editor.

Right-click USPopulation, and select Layer Properties from the context
menu.  The Layer Properties dialog appears.

Click Off next to Initial State to change it to On.  Changing the
initial state to On results in the US Population layer being
automatically checked (turned on) in Google Earth EC.

Right-click USPopulation, and select Configure Display Rules from the
context menu.  The Configure Display Rules dialog appears.

Set Max Resolution Level to 14 (or to 12 if you want to save some
time).  Leaving the level set at the default, 18, results in unduly
long processing time.

Click OK.  You return to the Vector Project Editor.

Select File > Save.  The Save dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vectorfolder.

Enter USPopulation as the name of your project.

Click Save.  The new project appears in the Asset Manager when you
select ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector in the asset navigation tree.

-[ Define, Build, Push, and Publish a Database for Your Data ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of defining, building,
pushing, and publishing a database using the projects you created in
the previous exercise.

-[ To define, build, and push a database: ]-

Click Database Editor Icon on the toolbar. The Database Editor appears
with no projects selected.

Click New Icon next to Vector Project. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Vector.

Select the USPopulation project, and click Open. The US Population
project appears in the Database Editor next to Vector Project.

Repeat steps 2 through 4 to add BlueMarble as the imagery project. You
do not need to add a terrain project for this exercise.  Both projects
appear on the list.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Databasesfolder.

Enter USPopulation for the name of your database, and click Save.  The
name of the database appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Databasesfolder in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click USPopulation, and select Build from the context menu.
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the database. The build process
might take a little longer than it has for previous databases--it is
building the project as well, since you did not build the project at
the end of the previous exercise.

Right-click USPopulation, and select Push from the context menu. The
Push Database dialog appears.

Select the server association on the Server Associations drop-down
list. The most recent version of the selected database is the default
selection on the Version drop-down list.

Click Push.  Google Earth Enterprise Fusion runs the process of
pushing the database to the Google Earth Enterprise Server, and
displays a success message when it is done.

-[ To publish a database: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials:  Username: geapacheuser
Password: geeadmin

Click Databases to display the list of databases pushed to the server.

Check the box next to the database you want to publish. The Publish
button on the Databases page appears.

Click the Publish button. The Publish dialog appears.

Specify a Publish point, where the database will be accessible from.
For example, if you specify USPopulation-v001, it will be accessible
from myserver.mydomainname.com/USPopulation-v001.  To learn more about
the options available in the Publish dialog, see  Default database
Search Tabs  Snippet profiles  WMS

Click Publish. The Databases page updates to indicate the published
status of your database.

-[ View Your Data in Google Earth EC ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of building, publishing,
and viewing your database in Google Earth EC.

-[ To build, publish, and view your database: ]-

Launch Google Earth EC.  The Select Server dialog appears.

Enter or select the host name or IP address of your server in the
Server field, and specify the Publish point that you selected when you
published your map database. For example, if you specify
USPopulation-v001, it will be accessible from
myserver.mydomainname.com/USPopulation-v001.

Click the Sign In button.

Warning: If you have logged in to this server with Google Earth EC
  previously, log out, clear your cache, and log back in. See

  Clearing the Google Earth EC cache

  .

Zoom in until you can see part of the US.

Turn and tilt the Earth so you can see the heights of the counties.
Google Earth EC displays all of the counties in the US labeled with
the names of the counties. The closer you zoom in, the more spread out
the counties look and the more county names you can see. As with the
database you created in Configuring Display Rules for Polygon Data,
each countyâ€™s height indicates its relative population. Counties with
higher populations are taller, and counties with lower populations are
shorter.  If you cannot see the vector data, make sure the check box
next to US Population in the Layers panel is checked.

If this were a real project, you might decide that displaying the
names of the counties makes this view too cluttered. You can go back
into the vector project, modify the display rules, rebuild and publish
the database, and then view your data in Google Earth EC again. Repeat
this process as many times as required to get the result you want.

