
Pushing, Publishing, and Viewing a Database

Pushing a database is the process of making a Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion database available on a Google Earth Enterprise Server so that
it can then be published for viewing with Google Earth EC.

The

push

 operation copies all the necessary files associated with a given
2D/3D Fusion database version to Google Earth Enterprise Server and
registers the database. Pushing is performed from Fusion.

The

publish

 operation makes a previously pushed database available for serving at
a specified publish point. Publishing is performed on Google Earth
Enterprise Server.

Note: Note:

   This lesson assumes that Google Earth Enterprise Fusion, the Google
  Earth Enterprise Server, and Google Earth EC are all installed on
  your local workstation. If any of these applications are installed
  elsewhere on your network, adjust the instructions in this lesson
  accordingly.

Note: Note:

   This lesson describes the steps for pushing a 3D Fusion database.
  The same workflow is used to push a 2D Mercator database, but note
  that snippet profiles do not apply and that the published map can be
  viewed in a web browser, not Google Earth EC. See

  Creating a Map Database

   for more information.

Push Your Database

Publish Your Database

View Your Database

-[ Push Your Database to Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

After you define and build your database, you “push” your database to
Google Earth Enterprise Server. Pushed databases appear on the
Databases page of the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console,
from which you can then publish them.

-[ To push a database: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Navigate to the SFHighways database you built in Defining and Building
Databases.

Right-click the name of the database, and select Push from the context
menu.  The Push Database dialog appears. The default server
association is the only option on the Server Associations drop-down
list. The most recent version of the selected database is the default
selection on the Version drop-down list.  Push Database Dialog

Click the Push button. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion pushes the
database to Google Earth Enterprise Server, and displays a success
message when it is done.  Note: If you get an error message, contact
your Google Earth Enterprise Server administrator for help, or check
the documentation on Before you Configure Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion for more information.

-[ Publish Your Database in Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

After you push your database to Google Earth Enterprise Server, you
can publish it for viewing with Google Earth EC.

-[ To publish a database: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default
password:geeadmin  Note: If you do not know your username and
password, contact your Google Earth Enterprise Server System
Administrator.

Click Databases to display the list of databases pushed to the Server.
SFHighways-v001 is listed. The Description, Type, Date, and Size of
the database are also noted.  GEE Server Database Page

Check the box next to SFHighways-v001. The Publish button on the
Databases page appears.  GEE Server Database Publish

Click Publish. The Publish dialog appears.

Change the default Publish point from SFHighways-v001 to
BayAreaHighways.  GEE Server Database Publish dialog  Note: You can
publish a database to multiple publish points, useful when you want to
apply different search tabs, snippet profiles, and virtual host
settings for different viewing needs.  Note: When publishing a
database, the publish point you specify is case-insensitive. Upper and
lower case are not differentiated. Make sure each publish point path
name you specify is unique.  To learn more about the options available
in the Publish dialog, see  Default database  Search Tabs  Snippet
profiles  WMS

Click the Publish  button. The Databases page updates to indicate the
published status of your database.  GEE Server Database Published List

-[ View Your Database ]-

After you publish your database, you can view it in Google Earth EC.
Google Earth EC can be downloaded from

here

.

-[ To view your database: ]-

Launch Google Earth EC.  The Login dialog appears.

Specify the Publish point by entering or selecting the URL or IP
address of your server and database in the Server field. For this
tutorial, the Publish point is
myserver.mydomainname.com/BayAreaHighways, where myserver and
mydomainname are specific to your server. An example URL would be
http://myhostname/BayAreaHighways.

Click the Sign In button.

Double-click CAHighways to zoom in to your road data.

This concludes the basic lessons in this tutorial. If you want to
continue with the

advanced lessons

, you can work through them in any order you like. Alternatively, you
can start working with real data now and come back and work through
the advanced lessons as you need them.
