
Imagery or terrain gaps

Your map imagery or terrain might display one or more of these issues:

Small gaps in both imagery and terrain that change as you zoom in or
out.

Dropoffs to zero values in the terrain at the edges of your tiles.

A permanent black seam at the edges of tiles where they meet the
adjacent tiles.

Gaps or tears in the imagery that appear at seemingly random places,
and that disappear when the terrain is turned off.

To resolve these issues:

Make sure that the input imagery does not have gaps, seamlines, or
holes.

If there is usable data to each extent of your imagery, you can remove
the mask.

By default, the automask tool assumes that the pixel value of the
green band is the fill data pixel value for the entire image. This is
used for masking as well as the hole check. Make sure that the Nodata
field contains a 0. Do not leave it blank.

If placing a 0 in the Nodata field does not resolve the issue, create
a mask file manually with the gemaskgen command and recreate the kmp
folder in Fusion. See instructions below.

To manually create the mask file:

Locate and record the full path to the resource kip and kmp folders:
gequery --outfiles resources/imagery/resource_i.kiasset  You will need
this information for building the automask and importing the mask
product.

Locate the path to the mask.tif file created by the automasker:
gequery --outfiles resources/imagery/resource_i.kiasset/maskgen.kia

Navigate to the mask.tif file and rename it to mask.tif.bak.

Create the new mask file:  gemaskgen --mask --band 1 --fill 0
--feather 0 \ --holesize 100
/path/to/resource_i.kiasset/product.kia/ver/raster.kip \ -o ./mask.tif
If your source files are MrSID files, you might need to add a mask
tolerance value (e.g., --tolerance 3).

Navigate to the resource kip and kmp folders, and move the mask.kmp
folder to mask.kmp.bak.

Create the new mask.kmp: gerasterimport --alphamask /path/to/mask.tif
--dataproduct /path/to/raster.kip \ --output ./mask.kmp

Launch the Fusion GUI and preview the image resource.
