
Customize your Google Maps landing page

Google uses the Google Maps API to create a sample web application
that provides a very basic way to display your Google Maps database
output in a browser. The sample web application and the Google Maps
API are automatically installed with Google Earth Enterprise Fusion.

Google recommends that you use the sample application to display your
Google Maps data at first. After you see how it looks, you can create
your own Google Maps web application that looks more like your other
web applications, using the provided sample web application as a
guide. Documentation for the Google Maps JavaScript API is at *Google
Maps JavaScript API V3 Reference <https://developers.google.com/maps/
documentation/javascript/reference>*.

To get started, make a copy of the sample application files
("maps_local.html", "maps_google.html, fusionmaps.js", and
"fusionmaps.css"). Then configure a virtual host on which you can
experiment, and move the copied files to that virtual host. When you
create the Apache configuration file for the new virtual host, change
"/maps/maps_google.html" or "/maps/maps_local.html" in the following
line to point to your copy of the example files on the new virtual
host:

"RewriteRule ^/default_map/+$ /maps/maps_google.html [PT]" or

"RewriteRule ^/default_map/+$ /maps/maps_local.html [PT]" You can edit
the rest of the sample application in whatever ways you like, adding
your own logo, branding, and so on.

-[ Configuring the Google Maps API License Key ]-

Google Maps supports only specific browser/operating system
combinations. Even if you are using a supported browser, there are
some features in Google Earth Enterprise Fusion that are not supported
by some browsers on certain operating systems.

As long as you are connected to the Internet and have a license key
for the Google Maps API, there is no problem (regardless of your
platform), since your server contacts Googleâ€™s servers for functions
that are not supported in the browser.

Note:

 The following procedure assumes that you have received an email from
Google that contains your license key for the Google Maps API.

-[ To configure your Google Maps API license key: ]-

Open /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html.

Locate the following line in the script:  <script src="http://maps.go
ogle.com/maps?file=api&v=2&key=abcdefg"type="text/javascript"></scrip
t>

Replace the key placeholder ('abcdefg') with your Google Maps API
license key. Your key is contained in an email sent from Google.

Save the maps_google.html file.

Restart the Google Earth Enterprise Server (as root):  sudo
/etc/init.d/geserver restart
