
Display custom logos

Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC) 5.0 and later can display multiple
custom logos with your globes and maps when connected to a GEE Server.

Custom logos are added as database preferences or

snippets

, which are managed using

snippet profiles

 you create using GEE Server. Once you have saved a custom logo in a
snippet profile, you can assign it to any database you publish. You
can apply a snippet profile to as many databases as you need.

-[ Cobrand_info snippet ]-

You can use the

cobrand_info

 snippet within a snippet profile to place your logos anywhere in the
Google Earth EC window.

The benefits of using

cobrand_info

 are:

You can access logos at both local and remote addresses (UNC, HTTP,
and HTTPS). However, we recommend that you host your logos on GEE
Server to ensure accessiblity to the server and Google Earth EC.

PNG, GIF, and JPEG image formats are supported.

Transparent logos are supported.

You can place logos anywhere on the screen.

You can display multiple logos at the same time.

You can use either absolute pixel values or relative screen size
values to place logos.

Logos can either be a fixed size or scaled to the width of the screen.

Logos are included with saved images and printouts from EC.

-[ Cobrand_info snippet definition ]-

You define the

cobrand_info

 snippet by specifying the URL from which the logo will be served, the
screen width size, the tie point (which controls the reference point
used when overlaying the logo), and x and y coordinates, expressed as
either absolute values in pixels or relative values of percentage of
screen width or height.

The following

cobrand_info

 example snippet places the

top_right.jpg

 logo in the top-right corner of the window (the top right of the
image is 5 pixels from the right edge of the window edge, using an
absolute x coordinate value, and 95% from the bottom using a relative
y coordinate value), and sets it to dynamically scale to 5% of the
screen width as the Google Earth EC window is resized.


-[ Cobrand_info parameters ]-

The following table describes the cobrand_info snippet parameters, all
of which are required.

Cobrand_info parameters      Name  Description  logoUrl  The location
of the logo file, e.g.,``http://yourserver.org/top-left-logo.gif``
Logos can be accessed locally or remotely via UNC, HTTP, or HTTPS.
Supported logo formats are PNG, GIF, and JPEG.  screen_size  Specifies
a fraction of window width the logo should be scaled to. Value must be
between 0.0 and 1.0, where 0.0 disables the scaling feature.  tiePoint
Specifies the part of the logo file that is placed at the specified
x_coord.value and y_coord.value values. The following screen positions
are allowed:  BOTTOM_LEFT  BOTTOM_CENTER  BOTTOM_RIGHT  TOP_LEFT
BOTTOM_LEFT  MID_LEFT  TOP_RIGHT  TOP_CENTER  MID_RIGHT  MID_CENTER
x_coord.is_relative  Used in conjunction with x_coord.value to specify
absolute or relative pixel placement of the tiePoint.  False means
x_coord.value is a pixel value.  True means x_coord.value is a window
size fraction.  x_coord.value  The EC horizontal (X axis) coordinate
for tiePoint. x_coord.value specifies a distance from the left edge of
the Earth window for logo tiePoint placement.  x_coord.value is used
in conjunction with x_coord.is_relative, which specifies whether the
distance is measured in pixel or relative values.  If
x_coord.is_relative is False (default), x_coord.is_relative is a pixel
value. You can use negative values to specify a distance from the
right edge.  If x_coord.is_relative is True, allowed values for
x_coord.is_relative are between 0.0 (left edge of window) and 1.0
(right edge).  y_coord.is_relative  Used in conjunction with
y_coord.value to specify absolute or relative pixel placement of the
tiePoint.  False means y_coord.value is a pixel value  True means
y_coord.value is a window size fraction.  y_coord.value  The EC
vertical (Y axis) coordinate position for tiePoin``t. ``y_coord.value
specifies a distance from the bottom edge of the Earth window for logo
tiePoint placement.  y_coord.value is used in conjunction with
y_coord.is_relative, which specifies whether the distance is measured
in pixel or relative values.  If y_coord.is_relative is False, this is
a pixel value. You can use negative values to specify a distance from
the top edge.  If y_coord.is_relative is True, allowed values are
between 0.0 (bottom edge of window) and 1.0 (top edge).

-[ Add a custom logo ]-

You can add any number of custom logos to your maps and globes, adding
each one using a

cobrand_info

 snippet. The ideal size for your logo is 64 x 64 pixels.

-[ To add a custom logo: ]-

Upload your logo file to a web server in the network. To host the file
on your GEE Server (for example, http://servername/filename.ext), copy
it to /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs.

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Snippet profiles to display your snippet profiles.

Click Create New. The Create new snippet profile dialog appears.  GEE
Server Create Snippet Profile dialog

Enter a name for the new snippet profile and click Create. The snippet
profile name appears in red in the Existing snippet profile list and
the Snippet editor opens.

Click the Add a new snippet set to the profile drop-down to display
the list of available snippets.

Select the cobrand_info snippet from the list.  GEE Server Select
cobrand_info Snippet

Enter a URL for the path of the custom logo. Select whether your x and
y coordinate values are expressed as relative or absolute and enter
the parameter values. All fields must be completed.  GEE Server
cobrand_info Snippet definition

Click Save changes to save the snippet profile.

-[ To apply a custom logo to a globe or map: ]-

In the GEE Server Admin console, click Databases. The list of
databases on GEE server appears.

Check the box next to the database to which you want to apply your
custom logo. Click Publish. The Publish dialog appears.

Select your snippet profile for your custom logo from the Snippet
profiles drop-down list.  GEE Server Publish dialog snippet profile
If you have already published your database, you need to Unpublish
before publishing again, this time adding your snippet profile to
apply your custom logo.

Click the Publish button to publish your database with the added
snippet profile.  Now, when you view your database in Google Earth EC,
your custom logo is displayed.

Tip: Google Earth EC recognizes only the snippet profile settings
  made by the first database that you connect to. This applies when
  you are connecting to multiple databases.

-[ cobrand_info snippet definition examples ]-

-[ Single logo at top-left ]-

This example places one logo in the top-left corner of the window (the
top-left of the image is 5% of the window width from the left side of
the window, and 95% from the bottom), and sets it to dynamically scale
to 10% of the window width as the window is resized.


-[ Single logo at mid right ]-

This example places one logo at the vertical midpoint on the right
side of the window using absolute and relative coordinate values. The
center-right logo tiePoint is placed 5 pixels from the right window
edge and at 50% of the relative window height. EC requests the file
using HTTPS (as specified in

logo_url

) and does not scale the logo.


-[ Single logo at top-center ]-

This example places one logo at the top-center of the window. The top-
center tiePoint of the logo is placed, by relative coordinates, at the
50% window width and 98% window height, and the logo dynamically
scales to 9% of the window width.


-[ Single logo at bottom-right corner ]-

This example places one logo in the bottom-right corner of the window
by combining relative and absolute coordinate values. The bottom-right
logo tiePoint is placed at 80% of the window width from the left
window edge, leaving a 20% margin at the right window edge, and 30
pixels from the bottom window edge. The logo is dynamically scaled to
occupy 20% of the window width.


-[ Single logo at top-left corner ]-

This example places one logo in the top-left corner of the window
using absolute pixel values. The top-left logo tiePoint is placed 5
pixels from the left window edge and 5 pixels from the top window
edge, and the logo is displayed without scaling.


-[ Learn more ]-

Manage snippet profiles
