
Apply alpha masking to imagery

Image masking is a method for making areas of an image transparent.
Images are defined as rectangular, but their contents can have
irregular shapes. For example, an image that contains the land mass
for a country has areas that are outside the country's borders. These
areas are called fill, or no-data regions, and they are usually black
or white. When the image is overlaid on a base map, these areas should
be transparent, to allow the base map to show through.

An

alpha mask

 is a set of pixels that specifies where to make an image transparent.
By default, Google Earth Enterprise Fusion automatically applies a
mask when it processes an image but you can also provide custom mask
data or prevent masking altogether. The Google Earth Enterprise Fusion

Automask tool

 scans an imagery resource, detects fill data from imagery, and then
creates a mask to only show the imagery.

GEE 5.x enables this

overlay

 approach, making it easy to add high resolution imagery insets
without the need to include imagery for the entire globe. In addition
to use as an overlay, alpha masking can be used to

blend

 imagery layers together.

Prior to GEE 5.x, each imagery layer—built by an imagery project—would
comprise an opaque foundation to which all imagery resources would be
added. In

GEE 4.4

 and earlier, the following example of high-resolution imagery inset
with a custom mask includes the

mask

 imagery covered with black pixels.

-[ GEE 4.4 and earlier versions applied opaque masks: ]-


As of

GEE 5.x

, each imagery layer—built by an imagery project—is comprised of a

transparent

 foundation from which all imagery resources are added. The
transparent alpha mask enables you to have imagery resources for
specific areas, and to view these as

overlays

 or

blends

 on other imagery via Google Earth EC. The following image shows the
same high resolution inset, this time with an alpha mask applied, so
that it can easily be used as an overlay of a secondary database of
worldwide imagery.

-[ GEE 5.x applies alpha masking: ]-


You can apply an alpha mask in different ways when you build an
imagery asset:

Use Auto mask to automatically scan an imagery resource, detect fill
data from the imagery, and then create a mask to only show the
imagery.  Auto mask works well to mask fill data though it cannot, for
example, mask imagery to a coastline since the water would still be
considered imagery and not fill. In such cases, create a custom mask.

Create your own custom mask
:doc:../fusionResAndProj/createCustomMasks` and use Have mask to apply
your custom mask.

-[ Learn More ]-

Defining imagery resources :ref:<Define_Imagery_Resources>

Create custom masks
