
Import a subset of imagery

You can import a single area of a source image to Fusion as a new,
smaller image file. For example, shown below is a compressed, high-
resolution MrSID source image of Santa Clara County, California. On a
standard server machine, it would take several hours to import this
entire image to Fusion.

If you do not need the entire image, you can select an area of the
image to import, then use "getranslate -projwin" to extract the area
and create a new image from it. The "-projwin" parameter reads the
coordinates of the bounding box you specify and writes out your
selection as a new image. The coordinates are based on the native
projection in the source image. You can use Google Earth to easily
find corner coordinates for the area you want to copy. (To learn how,
see

Find & use location coordinates

 in the

Google Earth Help

.) The "getranslate" tool, extended from the GDAL "gdal_translate"
tool, includes support for JPEG2000 format source imagery.


-[ Example of importing a subset of imagery ]-

The source file shown below is in a UTM projection (UTM Zone 10N,
NAD83 Datum) and references coordinates in meters. You can use Google
Earth to locate coordinates for the upper-left (580907.14 E &
4142271.64 N) and lower-right (581788.04 E & 4141453.58 N) corners of
the area you want to import. Then you can specify the coordinate
values, the output format (for example, a file type like GeoTIFF,
MrSID, or JPEG2000), and the projection (using the "-a_srs" option)
for the new image. The command looks something like this:

"/opt/google/bin/getranslate -of HFA -projwin 580907.14 4142271.64
581788.04 4141453.58 /path/to/input.sid /path/to/output.img"

The resulting output.img file contains imagery for the area you
specified with "-projwin":


You can compare the size of the original image with the extracted
area, as shown below:

-[ getranslate command options ]-

"usage: getranslate [options] <input> <output> Supported options are:
--help|-?     : Show this usage message  --formats     : Show
supported formats and exit  -ot
<Byte|Int16|UInt16|UInt32|Int32|Float32|Float64
|CInt16|CInt32|CFloat32|CFloat64>     : Pixel type of output (default:
match input)  -not_strict  -of <format>     : File format of output
(default: GTiff)  -b <band>     : Specifies band to copy (1 based
indexing). Can be:       specified multiple times. (e.g. "-b 3 -b 2 -b
1")       will reverse the bands.  -outsize <xsize[%]> <ysize[%]>
: Size of the output image (pixels or % of original).  -scale
[<src_min> <src_max> [<dst_min> <dst_max>]]     : Scale the input
pixels values  -srcwin <xoff> <yoff> <xsize> <ysize>     : Select sub
window from input  -a_srs <projection>     : Assign specified
projection to the output       <projection> can be:
NAD27|NAD83|WGS84|WGS72          EPSG:<num>          <PROJ.4
definition>          <OpenGIS Well Known Text>          <filename of
file with OpenGIS Well Known Text>          ESRI::<ESRI Well Known
Text File(.prj)>  -projwin <ulx> <uly> <lrx> <lry>     : Select sub
window from input. Like -srcwin but uses       georeferenced
coordinates  -co "NAME=VALUE"*     : Pass construction arguments to
output GDAL dataset  -mo "META-TAG=VALUE"*     : Meta information to
be included in the output  -quiet" Utilizes GDAL 2.1.2, released
October 2016
