---
layout: blogpost
title:  "5.2.3 Release Announcement"
section_id: blog
date:   2018-07-18 12:00:00
author: Open GEE Development Team
---

<br />

Hello Open GEE Community!
 
We are excited to announce the official release of Open GEE 5.2.3!  This release updates Open GEE with minor enhancements and bug fixes for GEE Fusion and Server.
 
Enhancements include:

**Open GEE C++ code now supports and defaults to compiling using the <code>-std=gnu++11</code> compile flag**. This default can be overridden and the C++ code can be compiled using the <code>-std=gnu++98</code> flag instead. Starting Open GEE 5.2.4 <code>-std=gnu++98</code> will be deprecated and will not be supported.

**Remove TCP/IP connections to PostgreSQL.** Open GEE Server, by default, connects to PostgreSQL exclusively using Unix domain sockets. This makes it easier to secure PostgreSQL for security-sensitive installations.

**Volume deletion.** <code>geconfigureassetroot</code> now supports the option <code>--removevolume</code> for volume deletion.

**Performance tuning for gecombineterrain.** <code>gecombineterrain</code> now supports the option <code>--numCompressThreads</code> which specifies the number of maximum worker threads used to compress packets in this operation.

**Package name customization at build time.** Scons build now accepts a custom label argument which is appended to the version in RPM file names.

**Rewrite KML URLs.** Users can rewrite the URLs for KML resources included in databases at publish time.

**Maps API Javascript Files.** Maps API JavaScript files are now available and installed at <code>/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/mapfiles</code>.


To download this release see the [release page](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise/releases/tag/5.2.3-4.final). The full release notes can also be found [here](http://www.opengee.org/geedocs/5.2.3/answer/7160003.html).
 
A big thank you goes out to all of the contributors who helped make this release possible! The next release, Open GEE 5.2.4, is already in progress!
 
Would you like to be part of the project? Please join us on [Slack](http://slack.opengee.org/) and visit [the project’s Github repository](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise). We would love to see you there!
 
–Open GEE Development Team

