---
layout: blogpost
title:  "5.2.2 Release Announcement"
section_id: blog
date:   2018-04-26 12:00:00
author: Open GEE Development Team
---

<br />

Hello Open GEE Community!
 
We are pleased to announce the official release of Open GEE 5.2.2!  This release updates Open GEE with minor enhancements and bug fixes for GEE Fusion and Server.
 
Enhancements include:

**The ability to load a default globe using Google Earth Enterprise Client** when connecting to the base URL path. This is achieved using new options for the <code>geserveradmin</code> command when publishing a database, i.e. <code>--setecdefault</code>. 

**Both the geserver and gefusion services support status.** <code>geserver</code> and <code>gefusion</code> now return the status of the services indicating whether they are running or not.

**Detailed profiling data for terrain processing.** The <code>gecombineterrain</code> command now produces performance details if profiling is enabled. To turn on profiling, use <code>log_performance=1</code> when building Open GEE, e.g. <code>scons -j8 release=1 log_performance=1 build</code> 


To download this release see the [release page](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise/releases/tag/5.2.2-2.final). The full release notes can also be found [here](http://www.opengee.org/geedocs/5.2.2/answer/7160002.html).
 
A big thank you goes out to all of the contributors who helped make this release possible! The next release, Open GEE 5.2.3, is already in progress!
 
Would you like to be part of the project? Please join us on Slack and visit the project’s Github repository. We would love to see you there!
 
–Open GEE Development Team

