---
layout: blogpost
title:  "5.3.1 Release Announcement"
section_id: blog
date:   2019-08-05 12:00:00
author: Open GEE Development Team
---

<br />

Hi Open GEE Community!
 
We are excited to announce the official release of Open GEE 5.3.1!  This release updates Open GEE with minor enhancements and bug fixes for GEE Fusion and Server.

**Enhancements:**

**- Uninstallation scripts are now copied to <code>/opt/google/install</code>.** This allows users to uninstall Fusion and Server without having to have a copy of the source code on hand.

**- Memory and performance improvements for large builds.** Memory utilization and performance have been improved, especially for large builds.

**- Increased logging during long Fusion operations.** Fusion's system manager can now be configured to log progress while calculating overlaps between resources.

**- Overlay option is now supported in terrain project command-line interfaces.** <code>genewterrainproject</code>, <code>geaddterrainproject</code> and <code>gemodifyterrainproject</code> have a new option for overlay support.

**- Cutter embeds extra metadata into portable files.** The bounding box metadata can be used to improve loading performance in some applications.

**Supported Operating Systems:**

**- Starting with Open GEE 5.3.2 Ubuntu 14.04 will no longer be supported.** Open GEE 5.3.1 will be the last version to support Ubuntu 14.04 due to its recent end of life.

To download this release see the [release page](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise/releases/tag/5.3.1-1013.12). The full release notes can also be found [here](https://www.opengee.org/geedocs/5.3.1/answer/7160008.html).
 
Our thanks go out to all of the contributors who helped make this release possible! The next release, Open GEE 5.3.2, is already in progress!
 
Would you like to be part of the project? Please join us on [Slack](http://slack.opengee.org/) and visit [the project’s Github repository](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise). We would love to see you there!
 
–Open GEE Development Team
