---
layout: blogpost
title:  "5.2.5 Release Announcement"
section_id: blog
date:   2019-01-24 12:00:00
author: Open GEE Development Team
---

<br />

Hi Open GEE Community!
 
We are happy to announce the official release of Open GEE 5.2.5!  This release updates Open GEE with minor enhancements and bug fixes for GEE Fusion and Server.
 
Enhancements include:

**GEE servers can respond to server definition queries with proper JSON.** A new parameter has been added to the query string to specify whether to return data in the original format or in JSON.

**New command line publishing options.** Users can now enable POI search, enhanced search, and WMS when publishing a database from the command line.

**Packets can now be dumped from portable globes.** The command line utility <code>geglxinfo</code> can now extract packets from 3D portable globes in order to explore their contents.

**New cutter advanced option: Continue past empty levels.** When cutting from a 2D map, the “Continue past empty levels” option forces the cutter to continue building the portable map within the polygon region down to the region level, even if the GEE server thinks there is no intermediate imagery to display.

**Installation scripts can no longer be run when the GEE packages are installed.** The install and uninstall scripts will now check if Open GEE has been installed with a package manager before continuing, and will not make any changes if the packages are already installed.

To download this release see the [release page](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise/releases/tag/5.2.5-714.41). The full release notes can also be found [here](https://www.opengee.org/geedocs/5.2.5/answer/7160006.html).
 
Our thanks go out to all of the contributors who helped make this release possible! The next release, Open GEE 5.3.0, is already underway!
 
Would you like to be part of the project? Please join us on [Slack](http://slack.opengee.org/) and visit [the project’s Github repository](https://github.com/google/earthenterprise). We would love to see you there!
 
–Open GEE Development Team
