
Portable User Guide for Windows and Linux

-[ Contents ]-

Introduction to Google Earth Enterprise Portable

Useful resources

Install GEE Portable

Serve a globe or map from GEE Portable

Serve a globe or map from the GEE Server

Broadcast a globe or map

Connect using GEE Portable

Connect using the Google Earth EC

Connect using the Google Earth Plug-in

Get info about your map

Change your configuration options

-[ Introduction to Google Earth Enterprise Portable ]-

Google Earth Enterprise Portable (GEE Portable) lets you view portable
globes and maps on your laptop or desktop without requiring network
access. This is useful for emergency responses to disasters like
earthquakes or floods, or for maps that contain private information
that you do not want to share on the internet.

You can install GEE Portable on a Windows or Linux machine. It starts
within seconds, and then you can launch a web browser to display one
of the portable globes or maps that has been saved to the GEE Portable
"data" directory.

Note: You can also connect to a portable globe or map with the
  Google Earth Enterprise Client (Google Earth EC). The Google Earth
  Plug-in for viewing a globe in the browser is now obsolete, but if
  you still have a copy of the plug-in and a browser that supports it,
  you can use it to connect to a Portable Server.

-[ Portable globe and maps ]-

A portable globe or map is a single file that stores all the
geospatial data available within your specified area of interest —
including all high-resolution imagery, terrain, vector data, KML
files, and searchable point of interest (POI) locations.

Outside the specified area of interest, the globe or map stores only
low-resolution imagery and terrain. You specify the levels of
resolution when you cut the globe or map.

The following table describes the portable file types and their
compatibility with GEE Portable.

      Portable File Type  Description  Compatibility with Portable
.glb  Portable 3D globe.  All versions.  .glm  Portable 2D map.  All
versions.  .glc  Composite map or globe file assembled from 2D or 3D
layers of other portable files.  All versions of GEE Open Source
Portable, discontinued GEE versions 4.4 and higher.

-[ Creating portable globes and maps ]-

You can

Create Portable Globes and Maps

 with the cutter tool feature of the Google Earth Enterprise (GEE)
Server, or you can obtain them from third-party vendors. Depending on
your area of coverage, it can take only a few minutes to specify and
generate a globe or map and then save it to the GEE Portable "data"
directory.

-[ Useful resources ]-

Creating portable globes and maps. Google Earth Enterprise users can
learn how to cut globes or maps to serve from Portable.

Portable Developer Guide. Software developers can create or customize
applications for Portable.

-[ Install GEE Portable ]-

GEE Portable is supported on:

Windows 7 and 10

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 7, including the most recent security
patches

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and 16.04 LTS

-[ To install GEE Portable: ]-

Refer to the Portable Server on Earth Enterprise Wiki for build,
install, and run instructions.

Note: Before you install an upgrade, back up the contents of your
  "data" directory.

Ther are currently no OS packages or installers and uninstallers for
Portable server. The installation procedure is to build it on the OS
distribution you want to use it on as a file archive. You can extract
the contents of the archive in whatever location you like, then
execute the server from that location.

Note: The Google Earth Plug-in is not supported any longer, so you
  cannot view globes (".glb" or ".glc" files) in your browser (unless
  you happen to have a copy of the old plug-in and a browser that can
  run it on Windows or Mac OS). You can, however, view maps (".glm"
  files). You can also use your Linux machine to serve 3D globes that
  you can view from Linux, Mac, or Windows machines that are connected
  to the Linux server.

-[ Serve a globe or map from GEE Portable ]-

Unpacking GEE Portable creates a directory with a name similar to
"portableserver-<os>-<version>", with "<os>" and "<version>" having
values depending on the operating system, Portable version, and build
date. This directory contains a folder named "data" (unless you
renamed it in "portable.cfg"). Copy your globe or map to the "data"
folder. The GEE Portable interface lists all the globes and maps
placed in this folder. If you no longer want a globe or map to appear
in the list, simply remove it from the "data" folder.

-[ Serve a globe or map from the Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

If you want to serve a globe or map to a large number of users, you
can use a Google Earth Enterprise Server (GEE Server) on a Linux
machine instead of a GEE Portable Server on a user’s machine. GEE
Server is capable of storing very large globes or maps, and it also
lets you serve globes and maps on your own private network so that
only authorized users can connect.

-[ To serve a map or globe from GEE Server: ]-

Enable the GEE Server Cutter tool on the command line:  In GEE Open
Source: gecutter enable  By default, the cut globes are stored in the
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes directory.  To change the
directory, create a symlink to point to another directory.

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Manage Portable to display the list of portable files in the
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes directory (by default).

Click Register next to the portable file you want to connect to. A
message appears to indicate that your portable map or globe has been
registered to GEE Server. Close the Manage portable globes window.  If
you want to download the file, click the file name.  The registered
portable map or globe now appears in the Databases list of the GEE
Server Admin console.

Check the box next to the portable file name, then click Publish. The
Publish dialog appears.

Enter a Publish point or accept the default. For example, the Publish
point MyCutGlobe would result in a serving URL
myserver.mydomainname.com/MyCutGlobe, where myserver and mydomainname
are specific to your server.

Specify a virtual host and optionally turn on WMS.

Click the Publish button to publish the portable file.  A message is
displayed to indicate that your portable map or globe has been
published and the Publish point is updated in the Databases list.

Click the Publish point link to view the portable map or globe in a
new browser tab.

-[ Broadcast a globe or map ]-

-[ To share a globe or map with others on your network: ]-

When disable_broadcasting is set to True in portable.cfg, the default
setting, you can enable broadcasting using either of the following
methods:  Add accept_all_requests True to your portable.cfg file.  Add
disable_broadcasting False to your portable.cfg file, and follow the
next option.

When disable_broadcasting is set to False in portable.cfg:  Add
accept_all_requests True to your portable.cfg file.  Visit the
Portable Server administration page, open a globe or map, and click on
the broadcast icon (Broadcast globe icon).

Note: By default, broadcasting is off and cannot be turned on via an
  http call to the API. This feature is controlled by the
  "disable_broadcasting" flag, which is set to "True" in
  "portable.cfg". However, if you set "accept_all_requests" to "True"
  in "portable.cfg", then broadcasting is enabled, regardless of the
  "disable_broadcasting" state.

-[ Connect using GEE Portable ]-

Start Portable Server by executing "python portable_server.py" from
the folder you unpacked the Portable Server archive in. After it
launches, open a browser and navigate to "http://localhost:9335"
(using any custom port or hostname you may have configured). Click the

Folder

 (outlined in red), then select the map you want to view. You can view
only one map at a time. Portable globes cannot be viewed with a web
browser. Use Google Earth Enterprise Client to view globes.

Globes and maps that are broadcast on your local network might require
an access key. If prompted, enter the key to view the globe or map.
You can obtain the key from the person who is broadcasting the globe
or map.

-[ Connect using the Google Earth Enterprise Client ]-

Launch the Google Earth Enterprise Client (Google Earth EC). When
prompted for a server address, enter "http://localhost:9335". If you
changed the default port in "portable.cfg", use the new port value
instead.

-[ Connect using the Google Earth Plug-in ]-

GEE Portable comes with a preconfigured HTML page called
"hello_maps.html" that displays your map using the "Google Maps API".

If you wish to make your own custom application, start by making a
copy of either of these files and then add your own edits.

To access either of the files, enter the URL in your browser:

   "http://localhost:9335/local/preview/developers/hello_maps.html"

Note: Although it is possible to configure GEE Portable to display
  multiple maps at the same time, this is not recommended or
  supported. The additional configuration requires you to build the
  map to reference a specific port number, which means you would have
  to rebuild it if you wanted to re-use it for any other ports.

-[ Get info about your globe or map ]-

Click the

Folder

 (outlined in red) to view a list of the globes and maps you can
access. Each globe or map is listed with its file name, description,
creation date, and size.

Select a map, then click the

Menu

 (outlined in red) then select

Show layer list

 to see all the layers for that map. You can use the list to select
the layers you want the map to display. To hide the layer list, click
the

Menu

, then select

Hide layer list

. |

-[ Change your configuration options ]-

The Google Earth Portable directory contains the "server/portable.cfg"
configuration file. This is the directory you unpacked the Portable
Server archive in.

The Portable configuration file defines the editable options listed
below.

port. The port on which to serve the globe or map. The default is
9335.

globes_directory. The directory that contains the globe and map files.

map_name. The default globe or map to serve when GEE Portable
launches.

fill_missing_map_tiles. If set to True, enables pixel-filling from the
ancestor map tile when there are no more tile descendants. Set this to
False if you want to clearly indicate areas that are beyond their
natural resolution, or if you just want to improve performance. You
can also improve performance by lowering the value of the
max_missing_maps_tile_ancestor option below.

max_missing_maps_tile_ancestor. If the fill_missing_map_tiles option
(above) is set to True and no tiles exist at your current display
level, this option specifies the maximum number of tiles to create
from samples of the ancestor tiles. Using a lower value can improve
performance because the server creates fewer tiles. The value is
written as 2x by 2x sized pixels. By default, x = 3. (Or 23 by 23
pixels, which equals 8 x 8 pixels. This is Display Level 6, or 24
tiles). To lower the value, replace x with a number lower than 3.

local_override. If set to True, GEE Portable looks for all the files
on the server first before looking for them on your machine.

disable_broadcasting. By default, this flag is set to True, preventing
broadcasting from being turned on via an HTTP call to the API.
However, if you set accept_all_requests to True in portable.cfg, then
broadcasting is enabled, regardless of the disable_broadcasting state.

accept_all_requests. If set to True, GEE Portable accepts all requests
to the server, and thus enables broadcasting, regardless of the state
of the disable_broadcasting flag.
