
Release notes: GEE 5.1.0

-[ Overview ]-

This document includes the following information about the Google
Earth Enterprise 5.1.0 release:

-[ New Features ]-

Google Earth Enterprise 5.1.0 release introduces greater map building
flexibility with an additional Plate Carrée map projection and for the
first time adds the ability to use flat imagery resources in all three
database types. Whether storage space is a key consideration or
performance speed when serving your map databases, GEE now offers
different options when planning your imagery resources.

Support for Flat Projection

 (Plate Carrée—EPSG:4326). The

Flat Projection

 map is useful because the imagery layers for Google Earth EC and
Google Maps can share the same database.

Add flat imagery to a Mercator map database

; when the Mercator map is served on GEE Server, the flat imagery is
projected as

Mercator on the Fly

. Now that your Mercator map databases can share the same imagery
projects as a Flat Projection map databases, you can save on storage
space and database building time by eliminating the need for Mercator-
based imagery.

Configure SSL/HTTPS with command line option

. You can now create and register a location-based virtual host using
the command line tool "geserveradmin --addvh --ssl". See

Configure GEE Server 5.1.0 for SSL/HTTPS

.

Set TRANSPARENT and BGCOLOR parameters when making WMS requests

. You can now determine if your map should be transparent, allowing
other map layers beneath to be visible, and you can also set the
background color of the map. See

Make Web Map Service (WMS) requests

.

Display All option for center labels for polygon settings in the Map
Layer dialog

. By default, GEE will display center labels of polygons so that they
do not overlap, hiding some labels where necessary. Alternatively,
check the

Display All

 option for center labels for polygon settings in the

Map Layer

 dialog to show all labels of polygons, irrespective of whether they
overlap. See

Creating a Map Database

.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

The Google Earth Enterprise 5.1.0 release is supported on 64-bit
versions of the following operating systems:

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and 12.04 LTS

Red Hat Enterprise Linux versions 6.0 to 6.5, including the most
recent security patches

CentOS 6.5

GEE 5.1.0 is compatible with Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC) and
Plugin versions 7.0.1 - 7.1.1.1888 for Windows, Mac, and Linux.

-[ Library Updates ]-

Google Maps JavaScript Maps API V3:

Updated to version 3.17. See change release information.

Apache HTTP Server:

Updated from version 2.2.27 to 2.2.29. See Apache HTTP Server Project
for information about the vulnerabilities addressed.

-[ Known Issues ]-

Known Issues        Number  Description  Workaround  17725523  When
attempting to install GEE 5.1.0 on RHEL 6 using the GUI installer, the
process is likely to fail.  To install GEE 5.1.0 on RHEL 6, use the
command line installer for Fusion and Server instead.  17532512  When
canceling the build process of a map database, the processes that
build the map layer project will not be canceled.  When canceling the
build process of a map database, you need also manually cancel the
build process for the map layer project:  In the Asset Manager dialog,
right-click the map database name that you are trying to cancel the
build and choose Asset Versions from the context menu. The Properties
dialog appears.  Select the version that you want to cancel, right-
click and select Version Properties from the context menu to open the
Version Properties dialog.  Click the + next to MapDatabase to open
the tree of assets in the database. Right-click the MapLayer assets
under Project and click Cancel in the context menu. The MapLayerLevels
processing is canceled. Close the Version Properties and Properties
dialogs to return to the Asset Manager.  17363564  3D databases with
terrain projects, including overlay insets, that do not include
worldwide coverage, may cause Google Earth 7.1.1 to crash.  Include
worldwide terrain in all terrain projects, even when building
overlays, as worldwide coveragei enables the regions of overlay inset
to fill with values from the base terrain.i See Defining and Building
Projects and Create terrain overlays.

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

The following resolved issues are incremental fixes and relative to
the last official build,

GEE 5.0.2

.

      Number  Description  Resolution  14254303  When installing
Fusion, the GUI installer skips the screen that enables group and user
name settings to be created.  Fixed. you can accept the default user
name: gefusionuser, and group name: gegroup or specify your own custom
names.  15290004, 15313028  When attempting to cancel a cut using the
Cutter tool, the Cancel button does not properly kill any running task
on GEE Server.  Fixed. The Cutter cancel process now kills any running
task on GEE Server.  16618751  When attempting to specify the --lut
option for the gevirtualraster tool, no file is specified.  The --lut
option has been removed from the gevirtualraster command and
supporting documentation as the LUT file type is not being used.
16135553  When the gemaskgen tool terminates in error, there is
insufficient error logging.  A check for size of source/output raster
and logging support for gemaskgen has been improved, providing more
information about processes and when they are terminated in error.
17300345  When adding a new imagery resource to an existing imagery
project that was originally built with GEE 4.4.1, adding a new imagery
resource and rebuilding the imagery project with GEE 5.x fails.
Fixed. Existing imagery projects with older imagery resources now
rebuild successfully.  16683365  The option to serve 3D databases
using WMS has been deprecated.  Fixed. WMS now serves 2D flat
projection map databases in addition to Mercator projection map
databases. See Make Web Map Service (WMS) requests.  16701881  When
attempting to set the maximum number of CPUs used for Fusion
processing tasks, geselectassetroot --numcpus fails to update the
value specified.  Fixed. The geselectassetroot --numcpus tool
specifies the maximum number of CPUs for Fusion processing.
