
Release notes: Open GEE 5.3.3

-[ New Features ]-

Ability to set default database from admin page

. For 3D databases, there is an additional option in the publish
dialog that allows the user to specify a database as the "default".
The "default" database will be served to the client if the server URL
is specified without a database name.

getop can retrieve and display information while gesystemmanager is
busy

. Previously, "getop" could not display information while system
manager was in the middle of major calculations. Now, this restriction
has been removed for most calculations, such as when system manager is
determining which resources overlap.

Improved memory usage reporting for caches

. The memory usage estimation for the asset and asset version caches
has been improved and is much more accurate.

Optimized handling for task status updates

. System manager's performance while handling updates about running
tasks has been improved. This update is experimental and can be
enabled using the

GraphOperations flag

.

Use Python 2.7 with EL6-based operating systems

. Change EL6 to use Python 2.7 from the SCL repositories in a virtual
environment for increased security. EL7 and Ubuntu are unaffected.

Additional refactoring of auto-generated code

. Move ReuseOrMakeAndUpdate and ReuseOrMakeAndUpdateSubAsset from
auto-generated code to the storage manager.

Miscellaneous security updates

. Security updates to prevent SQL injection attacks, buffer overflow
attacks, and other potential risks.

Clarified and updated documentation

. Update documentation. Updates were made for LDAP, for updated
XMLparams changes, in the autogenerated code, and general
clarifications made to existing documentation. Instructions also added
for building on FIPS-enabled machines.

GraphOperations flag Improved ease of use of Portable for WMS clients

. Accept col/row/level if x/y/z is missing in WMS request when serving
portable globes.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

The Open GEE 5.3.3 release is supported on 64-bit versions of the
following operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6.x and 7.x, including the most
recent security patches

CentOS 6.x and 7.x

Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

Google Earth Enterprise 5.3.3 is compatible with Google Earth
Enterprise Client (EC) version 7.1.5 and above.

To upgrade from Open GEE 5.2.0, do NOT uninstall it. We recommend that
you upgrade Open GEE 5.2.0 by simply installing Open GEE 5.3.3.
Installing Open GEE 5.3.3 on top of Open GEE 5.2.0 will ensure that
your PostgreSQL databases are backed up and upgraded correctly to the
new PostgreSQL version used by Open GEE 5.3.3.

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

      Number  Description  Resolution  1202  Can't select .KIP as
source  Select 'header.xml' in .KIP directory to select .KIP  1241
geglxinfo should parse all meshes in terrain packets  geglxinfo will
parse all meshes in terrain packets  1511  Missing Systemrc.h causes
compiler error  Remove requirement for Systemrc.h  1517  geglxinfo
should parse vector packets  geglxinfo will parse vector packets  1530
Cancel command is complicated  Simplify cancel command  1532
Supplemental search fields should be escaped for HTML when viewing on
an HTML page  Escape supplemental search fields  1538  Code coverage
builds incompatible with scons cache  Make code coverage builds
compatible with scons cache  1540  Gradle wrapper is obsolete  Update
gradle wrapper  1552  XML objects are not properly cleaned up  A
memory management bug in XML processing was fixed, resulting in lower
memory utilization and significantly improved performance.  1561
Unused REST end point in asset manager  Remove unused asset manager
REST endpoint  1564  Apache does not build with crypto enabled  Apache
builds with crypto enabled  1572  Unused directory  Remove obsolete
directory  1574  Broken GLFS pointer for PyYAML tarball  Fix GLFS
pointer for PyYAML tarball  1577  Use defusedxml in server code  Added
defusedxml as a dependecy.  Using defusedxml in place of PYTHON XML to
improve security.  1582  Unit tests for asset version state
calculation inaccurate  Fix asset version state calculation unit
tests.  1586  Wrong permissions on download_tutorial.sh  Fix
permissions issue on download_tutorial.sh  1591  New library
defusedxml  License file for defusedxml added.  1593  Python
dependency issues for Python 2.7  Resolve Python dependency issues.
1604  WMS capability doesn't work with reverse proxies  It now works,
as long as the protocol (http vs https) matches

-[ Known Issues ]-

      Number  Description  Resolution  4  Google basemap fails to load
in 2D Mercator Maps  Obtain a valid Google Maps API key and include it
in /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html.  8  Ensure GEE
Portable Cutter Job Completes  No current work around.  9  Improve
FileUnpacker Handling of Invalid Files  No current work around.  20
Simplify build process for portable builds on MacOS  Building and
running Portable Server on MacOS should be possible with minimal
changes.  34  Scons build creates temporary directories named “0”  No
current work around.  126  The Fusion installer creates a backup on
the first run  No current work around. The created backup can be
deleted.  190  Hostname mismatch check in installers doesn't work as
expected  No current work around.  193  Updated docs are not copied if
the /tmp/fusion_os_install directory already exists  Delete
/tmp/fusion_os_install at the beginning of the stage_install build
process.  201  Some tiles are displayed incorrectly in the Enterprise
Client when terrain is enabled  No current work around.  202  Icons
are not displayed on vector layers in the Enterprise Client  No
current work around. It is not clear if this is an error in GEE or in
the Enterprise Client.  203  Some vector layer options are not saved
No current work around.  221  The asset manager may display that a job
is "Queued" when in fact the job is "Blocked"  No current work around.
234  Geserver raises error executing apache_logs.pyc  No current work
around.  254  Automasking fails for images stored with UTM projection
Use GDAL to convert the images to a different projection before
ingesting them into Fusion.  269  gevectorimport doesn't crop features
Use GDAL/OGR to crop vector dataset before importing them using
Fusion.  295  Fix buffer overflows and leaks in unit tests  No current
work around.  309  Check for the FusionConnection before new asset is
populated  Make sure that gefusion service is started.  320  The
Portable Server web page uses obsolete REST calls  Do not use the
buttons on the Portable Server web interface for adding remote servers
or broadcasting to remote servers as these features are no longer
supported.  326  Libraries may be loaded from the wrong directory
Delete any library versions that should not be loaded or use
LD_LIBRARY_PATH to load libraries from /opt/google/lib.  340  GE
Fusion Terrain is black  No current work around.  342  Fusion crashes
when opening an unsupported file type  Re-open Fusion and avoid
opening unsupported file types.  343  gefusion: File
->open->*.kiasset*,*.ktasset*,*.kip does not work  kip is not a
supported format. Void opening files with .kip extension.  380
Provider field in resource-view is blank  Open the individual resource
to see the provider.  401  GEE commands are not in the path for sudo.
Specify the full path when running commands or add /opt/google/bin to
the path for all users, including the super user.  402  Provider
manager window locked to main window.  No current work around.  403
Missing Close button on system manager window in RHEL 7  Right-click
the title bar and select Close.  404  Opaque polygons in preview.  No
current work around.  405  Vector layer preview not cleared in some
situations  Reset the preview window to the correct state by either
clicking on it or previewing another vector layer.  407  Corrupt data
warning when starting Fusion  No current work around but Fusion loads
and runs correctly.  419  Fix Fusion Graphics Acceleration in Ubuntu
14 Docker Container Hosted on Ubuntu 16  No current work around.  437
Rebooting VM while it is building resources results in a corrupted XML
No current work around.  439  Uninstalling Fusion without stopping it
results in unexpected error message  Ignore that error message.  440
Fuzzy imagery in historical imagery tests.  No current work around.
442  Multiple database pushes after upgrade don't report a warning  No
current work around.  444  Fusion installer does not upgrade the asset
root on RHEL 7  Upgrade the asset root manually by running the command
that is printed when you try to start the Fusion service.  445  Path
to tutorial source volume in gee_test instructions is different from
path used in installers  Use /opt/google/share/tutorials.  448  Out of
Memory issues  Use a system that has more than 4GB RAM.  453  Improve
`check_server_processes_running` detection for uninstall  No current
work around.  456  Inconsistent behavior of vector layers after
upgrade  No current work around.  460  Possibility of seg fault in
QDateWrapper  No current work around.  474  Running gee_check on some
supported platforms reports that the platform is not supported  You
can ignore the failed test if using a supported platform (Ubuntu
16.04, RHEL 7, and CentOS 7).  477  'service geserver
stop/start/restart' doesn't work on Ubuntu 16.04 without a reboot
Reboot and try again.  487  gdal - python utilities do not recognize
osgeo module  Install python-gdal.  507  Volume host is reported
unavailable if `hostname` doesn't match volume host  Set the host
values in /gevol/assets/.config/volumes.xml to the FQDN and restart
the Fusion service.  557  WMS service problem with 'width' & 'height'
& 'bbox'  No current work around.  569  geserver service installation
and uninstallation issues  Before uninstalling geserver verify if it's
running or not.  590  Maps API JaVaScRiPt Files Not Found  No current
work around.  594  Save errors only reported for the first image
Close the form in question and try again.  640  Save button disabled
in 'Map Layer' creation dialog when an error encountered  Close the
resource form and open it again to make the save option available
again.  651  Release executables and libraries depend on gtest  Follow
current build instructions that requires gtest to be installed.  669
Missing repo in RHEL 7 build instructions  Enable rhel-7-server-
optional-rpms and rhel-7-server-optional-source-rpms repos.  686
Scons fails to detect libpng library on CentOS 6  Ensure that a
default g++ compiler is installed.  700  Add EL6/EL7 check to RPMs
Make sure that RPMS are installed on same EL version that they were
produced for.  788  Search fails after transferring and publishing a
database using disconnected send from the command line  Re-publish the
database from the web interface.  825  Geserver fails to start up
fully due to conflicting protobuf library  Run pip uninstall protobuf
to uninstall the protobuf library installed by pip.
