
Release notes: GEE 5.1.3

-[ Overview ]-

GEE 5.1.3 is an incremental release of

GEE 5.1

. It contains several bug fixes in Fusion and GEE Server, and updates
to third-party libraries.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

The Google Earth Enterprise 5.1.3 release is supported on 64-bit
versions of the following operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux versions 6.0 to 7.2, including the most
recent security patches

CentOS 6.0 to 7.2

Ubuntu 10.04, 12.04 and 14.04 LTS

Google Earth Enterprise 5.1.3 is compatible with Google Earth
Enterprise Client (EC) version 7.1.8 and Google Earth Plug-in versions
7.0.1 - 7.1.5.1557 for Windows and Mac.

-[ Library Updates ]-

Library Updates      Library  Updated Version  GDAL  2.1.2  Google
Maps JS API V3  3.27  Apache httpd  2.2.32  OpenSSL  1.0.2k  freetype
2.6.1

-[ Known Issues ]-

Known Issues        Number  Description  Workaround  31619151  Missing
historical imagery dates in EC timeslider  Ensure all assets in the
project have valid timestamps and they are unique (in case some of the
resources have the same date & time).  35093485  Google basemap fails
to load in 2D Mercator databases built with "Use Google Basemap"
option  Edit /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html to
include a valid API Key (or client id) to the Maps API JavaScript
call. See https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript
/error-messages#no-api-keys

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

Resolved Issues        Number  Description  Resolution  1644180
Improve granularity of image acquisition date  Fixed in Fusion:
imagery acquisition date now supports hours, minutes and seconds with
the (ISO-8601) format YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss. This new extended timestamp
is backward compatible and enabled in the Fusion UI as well as i
command-line tools. Client support is being added to EC's timeslider;
updated version coming soon.  11271105  gekmlgrabber fails to grab KML
files referenced with relative URLs  Fixed in Cutter.  17300345,
18021264  Missing cache_alpha files reported when building projects
with pre-processed source data (KIP)  Fixed in Fusion: after
upgrading, clean the latest blocked version of the database, clean the
latest blocked version of the imagery/terrain project, and then
rebuild.  21760202  gesystemmanager consumes large amount of of
resources (cpu & memory) when cancelling large projects  Fixed in
Fusion: optimized cache when building raster projects.  24375793  Use
asynchronous communication with server in Portable Viewer  Fixed in
Portable Server.  24469566  Search bar disappears after clicking 'go
to polygon' in Portable Viewer  Fixed in Portable Server.  25954774
Implement swap and replace functions when publishing databases  Fixed
in GEE Server: to facilitate updates to existing published databases,
geserveradmin supports --republish of databases which involves
unpublishing an existing target, and publishing a new database on that
same target while retaining its publish context i.e. virtual host,
snippets, search services, WMS-serving. The --swaptargets option swaps
the target path of two published databases along with their publish
context. This makes it easy to test or revert databases in production
environments. For more information, see geserveradmin usage.
26964919, 27346002  POI searches fail when servers deployed behind
load-balancer  Fixed in GEE Server: deprecate database ID (db_id), and
modify POI search service to query poi_id based on target_path
instead.  27689103  Large POI files break database push  Fixed in
Fusion: Split POI files in 1 GB parts.  28941507  Coordinate search
doesn't send search status to Federated search  Fixed in GEE Server.
30189080  Security: High risk HTTPoxy vulnerability  Fixed in GEE
Server: block HTTP Proxy headers in Apache environment.  30512788
Publish fails when only supplementary search tabs are enabled  Fixed
in GEE Server.  30974078  Portable throws error with blank lines in
portable.cfg  Fixed in Portable Server.  31713095  Check for duplicate
images in Asset Manager  Fixed in Fusion: Imagery Resource file dialog
checks for duplicates such that the same image cannot be added more
than once.  32120563  Get postgreSQL port number from configuration
file  Fixed in GEE Server: custom port numbers for GEE's postgres
service should be specified in the files:
/var/opt/google/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf and /opt/google/gehttpd
/wsgi-bin/conf/postgres.properties. (The default port is 5432.)
32547956  Cutter fails if 'rsync' not present on system  Fixed in GEE
Server: gecutter is no longer dependent on 'rsync' utility.
