
Release notes: Open GEE 5.2.1

-[ Overview ]-

Open GEE 5.2.1 is a comprehensive update of

Open GEE 5.2.0

. It contains new features, several bug fixes in Fusion and GEE
Server, and updates to third-party libraries.

-[ New Features ]-

MrSID support

. At build time, Open GEE checks for MrSID libraries and, if found,
Fusion will be built with MrSID raster format support.

RPM Installers

. For RedHat and CentOS, RPMs can now be built to enable easier
installation. For Ubuntu, the installer scripts continue to be the
supported way to install Open GEE.

JPEG2000 performance boost

. Updated version of OpenJpeg2000 library has considerable performance
increase.

Controlling quality of terrain

. Command-line tool gepackgen producing packets now accepts a
decimation value. In general, reducing the decimation value for
terrain produces higher quality and better looking terrain.

Testing scripts enhanced

. "publish_tutorial.sh" and "publish_historical.sh" scripts now
publish the pushed databases.

Detailed version info

. Version number displayed in user interface shows detailed
information indicating an official release or a development build.

Continuous Integration

. Travis CI is used for continuous integration. On every new commit to
Open GEE a build is executed to validate the committed changes.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

Open GEE 5.2.1 is supported on 64-bit versions of the following
operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6.x and 7.x, including the most
recent security patches

CentOS 6.x and 7.x

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and 16.04 LTS

Google Earth Enterprise 5.2.1 is compatible with Google Earth
Enterprise Client (EC) version 7.1.5 and above.

-[ New and Updated Libraries ]-

Open GEE 5.2.1 includes many library updates. Major updates include:

      Library  Version  New or Updated  OpenJPEG  2.3.0  Updated
PostgreSQL  9.6.5  Updated  PostGIS  2.3.4  Updated

To upgrade from Open GEE 5.2.0, do NOT uninstall it. We recommend that
you upgrade Open GEE 5.2.0 by simply installing Open GEE 5.2.1.
Installing Open GEE 5.2.1 on top of Open GEE 5.2.0 will ensure that
your PostgreSQL databases are backed-up and upgraded correctly to the
new PostgreSQL version used by Open GEE 5.2.1.

-[ Known Issues ]-

Known Issues        Number  Description  Workaround  4  Google basemap
fails to load in 2D Mercator Maps  Obtain a valid Google Maps API key
and include it in /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html.  8
Ensure GEE Portable Cutter Job Completes  No current work around.  9
Improve FileUnpacker Handling of Invalid Files  No current work
around.  20  Simplify build process for portable builds on MacOS
Building and running Portable Server on MacOS should be possible with
minimal changes.  34  Scons build creates temporary directories named
“0”  No current work around.  126  The Fusion installer creates a
backup on the first run  No current work around. The created backup
can be deleted.  127  Incorrect error messages from Fusion installer
No current work around.  190  Hostname mismatch check in installers
doesn't work as expected  No current work around.  193  Updated docs
are not copied if the /tmp/fusion_os_install directory already exists
Delete /tmp/fusion_os_install at the beginning of the stage_install
build process.  200  stage_install fails on the tutorial files when
/home and /tmp are on different file systems  Ensure that /home and
/tmp are on the same file system or download the tutorial files to
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/ after installing Fusion.  201
Some tiles are displayed incorrectly in the Enterprise Client when
terrain is enabled  No current work around.  202  Icons are not
displayed on vector layers in the Enterprise Client  No current work
around. It is not clear if this is an error in GEE or in the
Enterprise Client.  203  Some vector layer options are not saved  No
current work around.  221  The asset manager may display that a job is
"Queued" when in fact the job is "Blocked"  No current work around.
225  Fusion lets you create folder with space in the name  Avoid
creating folder with space in their name.  234  Geserver raises error
executing apache_logs.pyc  No current work around.  254  Automasking
fails for images stored with UTM projection  Use GDAL to convert the
images to a different projection before ingesting them into Fusion.
269  gevectorimport doesn't crop features  Use GDAL/OGR to crop vector
dataset before importing them using Fusion.  295  Fix buffer overflows
and leaks in unit tests  No current work around.  309  Check for the
FusionConnection before new asset is populated  Make sure that
gefusion service is started.  320  The Portable Server web page uses
obsolete REST calls  Do not use the buttons on the Portable Server web
interface for adding remote servers or broadcasting to remote servers
as these features are no longer supported.  326  Libraries may be
loaded from the wrong directory  Delete any library versions that
should not be loaded or use LD_LIBRARY_PATH to load libraries from
/opt/google/lib.  340  GE Fusion Terrain is black  No current work
around.  342  Fusion crashes when opening an unsupported file type
Re-open Fusion and avoid opening unsupported file types.  343
gefusion: File ->open->kiasset,ktasset,kip does not work  kip is not a
supported format. Void opening files with .kip extension.  380
Provider field in resource-view is blank  Open the individual resource
to see the provider.  401  GEE commands are not in the path for sudo.
Specify the full path when running commands or add /opt/google/bin to
the path for all users, including the super user.  402  Provider
manager window locked to main window.  No current work around.  403
Missing close button on system manager window in RHEL 7  Right click
the title bar and select close.  404  Opaque polygons in preview.  No
current work around.  405  Vector layer preview not cleared in some
situations  Reset the preview window to the correct state by either
clicking on it or previewing another vector layer.  407  Corrupt data
warning when starting Fusion  No current work around but Fusion loads
and runs correctly.  419  Fix Fusion Graphics Acceleration in Ubuntu
14 Docker Container Hosted on Ubuntu 16  No current work around.  437
Rebooting VM while it is building resources results in a corrupted XML
No current work around.  439  Uninstalling Fusion without stopping it
results in unexpected error message  Ignore that error message.  440
Fuzzy imagery in historical imagery tests.  No current work around.
442  Multiple database pushes after upgrade don't report a warning  No
current work around.  444  Fusion installer does not upgrade the asset
root on RHEL 7  Upgrade the asset root manually by running the command
that is printed when you try to start the Fusion service.  445  Path
to tutorial source volume in gee_test instructions is different from
path used in installers  Use /opt/google/share/tutorials.  448
Investigate Out of Memory issues  Use a system that has more than 4GB
RAM.  453  Improve `check_server_processes_running` detection for
uninstall  No current work around.  456  Inconsistent behavior of
vector layers after upgrade  No current work around.  460  Possibility
of seg fault in QDateWrapper  No current work around.  474  Running
gee_check on some supported platforms reports that the platform is not
supported  You can ignore the failed test if using a supported
platform (Ubuntu 14.04, Ubuntu 16.04, RHEL 7, and CentOS 7).  477
'service geserver stop/start/restart' doesn't work on Ubuntu 16.04
without a reboot  Reboot and try again.  487  gdal - python utilities
do not recognize osgeo module  Install python-gdal.  507  Volume host
is reported unavailable if `hostname` doesn't match volume host  Set
the host values in /gevol/assets/.config/volumes.xml to the FQDN and
restart the Fusion service.  535  DownloadTutorial.sh often is not
staged properly for install  Copy DownloadTutorial.sh to
/tmp/fusion_os_install.  557  WMS service problem with 'width' &
'height' & 'bbox'  No current work around.  569  geserver service
installation and uninstallation issues  Before uninstalling geserver
verify if it is running or not.  590  Maps API JavaScript Files Not
Found  No current work around.  594  Save errors only reported for the
first image  Close the form in question and try again.  640  Save
button disabled in 'Map Layer' creation dialog when an error
encountered  Close the resource form and open it again to make the
save option available again.  651  Release executables and libraries
depend on gtest  Follow current build instructions that requires gtest
to be installed.  669  Missing repo in RHEL 7 build instructions
Enable rhel-7-server-optional-rpms and rhel-7-server-optional-source-
rpms repos.  682  Update geconfigurepublishroot to fully correct file
permissions  Correct manually the file permissions.  686  Scons fails
to detect libpng library on CentOS 6  Ensure that a default g++
compiler is installed.  694  Search fails after transferring and
publishing a database using disconnected send from the command line
Re-publish the database from the web interface.  700  Add EL6/EL7
check to RPMs  Make sure that RPMS are installed on same EL version
that they were produced for.

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

Resolved Issues        Number  Description  Resolution  2  MrSID
imagery is not supported  Build script now checks for MrSID libraries
and if found, Fusion will be built with MrSID format support  6  The
Portable UI reports an error any time a cut is canceled, even if the
cancel was successful  Fixed concurrency issue  247  Default Imagery
and Terrain file filters ignore files with the ".tiff" extension
Added ".tiff" to list of supported format extensions  321, 335, 359
If there is an error while saving a resource, the resource cannot be
saved again even if the error is resolved  Fixed out-of-sync errors
355  Package gtest under CentOS/RHEL 6  instructions for building
OpenGEE under CentOS 6 were updated and build scripts modified to
detect and use "devtoolset-2-toolchain"  375  Invalid version of
psycopg2 on Ubuntu 16.04  Added PYTHONPATH to Apache environment, so
it gets passed on to CGI scripts like Cutter  423  Slower JPEG2000
performance than 5.1.3  Upgraded to new version of OpenJpeg: 2.3.0.
This new version has multiple performance improvements.  476  Support
building on CentOS6 with Python2.6  Added support for Python 2.6 for
CentOS6.  515  gepolymaskgen segfaults with specific inputs  Fixed out
of bounds error in box filter  524  Globe Database Fails to Publish if
a Snippet is selected  Fixed spelling mistake  624  File permissions
incorrect in /opt/google if root has a restrictive umask  Fixed
permissions  634  Duplicate resources in imagery projects  Passed
"re_init" flag down through prefill  658  Fix Perl Interpreter Paths
in Built Scripts  Added initscripts as a dependency for opengee-server
and updated find-requires and requiresCommands capabilities of RPM
666  Running gerewritedbroot with the proper parameters results in a
usage message  initialized variable in gerewritedbroot  668  Cannot
push databases with search enabled in dual server configuration
Ensured that poi data files are included in the manifest when pushing
a database to the server  671  Documentation link on Server admin page
is broken in release_5.2.1  Fixed links  677, 685  Trying to
disassemble or assemble a portable globe or map GLC fails on RedHat 6
Used a python 2.6 compatible function instead of python 2.7.  680
Restoring a DB dump from earlier versions of GEE that does not have a
search enabled will fail  Moved logic to add postgres extension when
restoring/upgrading earlier in the process
