
Relocate your asset root

When you install Google Earth Enterprise, you configure a source
volume and asset root for your production data. If you accepted the
default values, they are "/gevol/src" and "/gevol/assets",
respectively.

You may need to relocate your asset root to a different volume for a
variety of reasons. You may be migrating from a single- to a multiple-
workstation configuration or modifying the local path of a network-
mounted source volume (for example, when adding a larger drive for
source data).

Note: Your asset root and publish root, "/published_dbs/", should be
  located on the same volume, enabling Fusion to use symbolic links.
  Keeping your asset root and publish root on separate volumes causes
  Fusion to make copies of your databases, obviously leading to
  greater use of disk space.

Relocate your asset root and publish root

Relocate your asset root only

-[ Relocate your asset root and publish root ]-

-[ To relocate your asset root and publish root: ]-

Copy your asset root to the new location.

Select your new asset root:  sudo /opt/google/geselectassetroot
--assetroot new_path

You may need to repair the relocated asset root, fixing various
inconsistencies in the asset root (such as permissions, ownership,
missing ID files, etc.). When you run this command, the tool auto-
detects the problems that need to be repaired and fixes them.  sudo
/opt/google/bin/geconfigureassetroot --repair --chown new_path  You
may relocate/change other volume settings by editing volumes. You can
add a volume to the selected asset root, modify the localpath
definition for an existing volume, or add a volume definition: sudo
/opt/google/bin/geconfigureassetroot --editvolume  Make sure that the
update to the asset root is successful before attempting further
changes to volume settings.

Run Fusion and verify that you see all your databases.

Create your new publish root:  sudo
/opt/google/bin/geconfigurepublishroot

Once you have configured the new publish root, you must republish all
of the databases, by pushing and then publishing them. You can use the
Fusion GUI to push and the GEE Server Admin console to publish your
databases or you can perform these steps on the command line:
geserveradmin -adddb  geserveradmin -pushdb  geserveradmin -publishdb

Optionally, you can delete your old asset root and your publish root.

-[ Relocate your asset root only ]-

Your asset root and publish root, "/published_dbs/", should be located
on the same volume, enabling Fusion to use symbolic links. If you
maintain your asset root and publish root on separate volumes, Fusion
makes copies of your databases, obviously leading to greater use of
disk space.

-[ To relocate your asset root if your publish root will not be on the
same volume: ]-

Unpublish all databases on the Databases page of the GEE Server Admin
console or on the command line:  geserveradmin --unpublish target_path

Delete all pushed databases:  geserveradmin --deletedb db_name

Clean up deleted databases using garbagecollect. This is equivalent to
emptying the Trash on some operating systems.  geserveradmin
--garbagecollect

Copy the asset root to the new location.

Select the new asset root:  sudo /opt/google/geselectassetroot
--assetroot new_path

You may need to repair the relocated asset root, fixing various
inconsistencies in the asset root (such as permissions, ownership,
missing ID files, etc.). When you run this command, the tool auto-
detects the problems that need to be repaired and fixes them.  sudo
/opt/google/bin/geconfigureassetroot --repair --chown new_path

Run Fusion and verify that you see all of the databases.

Once you have configured the new publish root, you must republish all
your databases, by pushing and then publishing them. You can use the
Fusion GUI to push and the GEE Server Admin console to publish your
databases or you can perform these steps on the command line:
geserveradmin -adddb  geserveradmin -pushdb  geserveradmin -publishdb

Optionally, you can delete your old asset root.

-[ Learn more ]-

Push and publish databases

Configure Tutorial Workspace

Back up Fusion servers
