
Troubleshoot connection to GEE Server

If the Google Earth EC is unable to connect to your GEE Server, you
will see the error, "Google Earth failed to connect to database":

To resolve this issue, try these troubleshooting steps:

Make sure the Server URL (http://hostname/path) is correct in the
"Google Earth - Select Server" dialog box, which appears when you
start EC:  The hostname should match the fully qualified domain name
of your GEE Server.  The path in the URL should match the Publish
Point shown in the GEE Server UI. This path indicates the location
where the database was published.

Look for client EC requests in the GEE Server logs:  Open a terminal
window on the GEE Server.  Type the command tail -f
/opt/google/gehttpd/logs/access_log  Start EC and try connecting to
your GEE Server.  In the terminal window, you should see time-stamped
access requests in the logs from the client, starting with a GET
request for the dbRoot file, followed by flatfile requests—for
example:  192.168.1.199 - - [08/Feb/2016:09:10:25 -0800] "GET
/3d/dbRoot.v5?hl=en&gl=us&output=proto&cv=7.1.5.1557&ct=ec HTTP/1.1"
200 4512 "-" "GoogleEarth/7.1.5.1557(Windows;Microsoft Windows
(6.2.9200.0);en;kml:2.2;client:EC;type:default)" 192.168.1.199 - -
[08/Feb/2016:09:10:27 -0800] "GET
/3d/dbRoot.v5?db=tm&hl=en&gl=us&output=proto&cv=7.1.5.1557&ct=ec
HTTP/1.1" 200 1161 "-" "GoogleEarth/7.1.5.1557(Windows;Microsoft
Windows (6.2.9200.0);en;kml:2.2;client:EC;type:default)"
192.168.1.199 - - [08/Feb/2016:09:10:27 -0800] "GET
/3d/flatfile?lf-0-icons/help_l.png&h=32 HTTP/1.1" 200 426 "-"
"GoogleEarth/7.1.5.1557(Windows;Microsoft Windows
(6.2.9200.0);en;kml:2.2;client:EC;type:default)"  ​If no new entries
appear in the logs, then EC was unable to establish a connection to
the GEE Server. This may be due to a network or firewall problem, as
described in the next step.

Verify network connectivity from EC to the GEE Server:  The firewall
on the host might be blocking outbound connections - check your
firewall. Also, you can use tools such as Wireshark or Fiddler to
capture HTTP traffic on your computer and confirm that EC is sending
requests to the GEE Server.  The firewall on the GEE Server might be
blocking inbound connections from external hosts on port 80. Check
whether firewalls like iptables are enabled on the server and are
configured with packet-filtering rules.  Network or web proxies might
be causing connection issues. Consult your network administrator.  Use
tools such as ping or traceroute on the client machine to diagnose
connectivity issues.
