
Release notes: Open GEE 5.2.0

-[ Overview ]-

Open GEE 5.2.0 is the first open source release of Google Earth
Enterprise. It is designed to be compatible with GEE 5.1.3 with the
exception of MrSID support. Open GEE 5.2.0 includes a number of code
and library changes to support the open source effort.

-[ New Features ]-

Open Sourcing

. Open GEE 5.2.0 includes a number of changes that were necessary for
the open sourcing effort. This includes several library replacements,
library unbundling, removal of obsolete code and libraries, changes to
support new compilers, updates to support git and Github, and several
documentation changes.

New Installers

. Previous GEE installers used proprietary tools that are not
appropriate for open source projects. Open GEE 5.2.0 includes new
installers that run as bash scripts. There are also new build and
install scripts for the Portable Server.

New Tutorial Files

. Images used in the Fusion tutorial are now provided in both tif and
jp2 format. In addition, the tutorial files are stored and downloaded
separately from the rest of the Open GEE code.

OpenGEE.org Web Site

. The Open GEE repository now includes the source code for the Open
GEE website, which can be viewed at

http://www.opengee.org

.

New --listvolumes Flag in geconfigureassetroot

. The geconfigureassetroot utility now supports a --listvolumes flag
that allows users to display the configured volumes for the current
asset root without stopping Fusion.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

The Open GEE 5.2.0 release is supported on 64-bit versions of the
following operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 7.x, including the most recent
security patches

CentOS 7.x

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and 16.04 LTS

Google Earth Enterprise 5.2.0 is compatible with Google Earth
Enterprise Client (EC) version 7.1.5 and above.

-[ New and Updated Libraries ]-

Open GEE 5.2.0 includes extensive library changes. This list may be
incomplete.

      Library  Version  New or Updated  Google Maps  API V3 3.29
Updated  mod_wsgi  4.5.14  Updated  OpenJPEG  2.1.2  New  QT  3.3.8b-
free  Updated  GDAL  2.1.2  Updated

If you are upgrading from GEE 5.1.3, you may have to reinstall the
prerequisite libraries after uninstalling 5.1.3 but before installing
5.2.0.

-[ Known Issues ]-

Known Issues        Number  Description  Workaround  2  MrSID imagery
is not supported  MrSID support can be added by purchasing a
proprietary GDAL plugin that supports MrSID and modifying the build
process to include the plugin.  4  Google basemap fails to load in 2D
Mercator Maps  Obtain a valid Google Maps API key and include it in
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html.  6  The Portable UI
reports an error any time a cut is canceled, even if the cancel was
successful  Ignore the misleading error message.  200  stage_install
fails on the tutorial files when /home and /tmp are on different file
systems  Ensure that /home and /tmp are on the same file system or
download the tutorial files to /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/
after installing Fusion.  202  Icons are not displayed on vector
layers in the Enterprise Client  No current work around. It is not
clear if this is an error in GEE or in the Enterprise Client.  203
Some vector layer options are not saved  No current work around  254
Automasking fails for images stored with UTM projection  Use GDAL to
convert the images to a different projection before ingesting them
into Fusion.  320  The Portable Server web page uses obsolete REST
calls  Do not use the buttons on the Portable Server web interface for
adding remote servers or broadcasting to remote servers as these
features are no longer supported.  326  Libraries may be loaded from
the wrong directory  Delete any library versions that should not be
loaded or use LD_LIBRARY_PATH to load libraries from
`/opt/google/lib``.  333  Portable Server is not supported on MacOS
Building and running Portable Server on MacOS should be possible with
minimal changes.  335, 359  If there is an error while saving a
resource, the resource cannot be saved again even if the error is
resolved  Close the resource form and open it again to make the save
option available again.  340  GE Fusion Terrain is black  No current
work around  342  Fusion crashes when opening an unsupported file type
Re-open fusion and avoid opening unsupported file types.  375  Invalid
version of psycopg2 on Ubuntu 16.04  On Ubuntu 16.04 switch to
'python-psycopg2' instead of 'python2.7-psycopg2'.  380  Provider
field in resource-view is blank  Open the individual resource to see
the provider  401  GEE commands are not in the path for sudo  Specify
the full path when running commands or add /opt/google/bin to the path
for all users, including the super user  402  Provider manager window
locked to main window.  No current work around  403  Missing close
button on system manager window in RHEL 7  Right click the title bar
and select close  404  Opaque polygons in preview.  No current work
around  405  Vector layer preview not cleared in some situations
Reset the preview window to the correct state by either clicking on it
or previewing another vector layer  407  Corrupt data warning when
starting fusion  No current work around but Fusion loads and runs
correctly.  423  Slower JPEG2000 performance than 5.1.3  Use Geotiff
or other image formats.  437  Rebooting VM while it is building
resources results in a corrupted XML  No current work around  440
Fuzzy imagery in historical imagery tests.  No current work around
444  Fusion installer does not upgrade the asset root on RHEL 7
Upgrade the asset root manually by running the command that is printed
when you try to start the fusion service  453  Improve
`check_server_processes_running` detection for uninstall  No current
work around  456  Inconsistent behavior of vector layers after upgrade
No current work around  474  Running gee_check on some supported
platforms reports that the platform is not supported  You can ignore
the failed test if using a supported platform (Ubuntu 14.04, Ubuntu
16.04, RHEL 7, and CentOS 7).  476  Support building on CentOS6 with
Python2.6  No current work around  477  'service geserver
stop/start/restart' doesn't work on Ubuntu 16.04 without a reboot
Reboot and try again

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

Resolved Issues        Number  Description  Resolution  (none)  Error
when fusing a mosaic in GDAL 2.x  Implemented IReadBlock() API for
khVRRasterBand  16  gefusionuser must have write access to vector
files  Removed the requirement for write access  26  Fusion
segmentation faults when trying to push and the server is not
available  Passed the correct data type to cURL function  167  If save
fails because the Fusion server is not running, the user cannot save
again even if the problem is fixed  Updated state management in
resource creation form  179  Update date parsing to fix default date
handling  Added code to handle default dates in Fusion tools  196
Simplify SSL settings and enable TLS 1.2 by default  Consolidated SSL
settings and updated the defaults to include TLS 1.2  239
cachedreadaccessor_unittest fails on free() call on Ubuntu 16.04
Increased the size of a buffer that was overflowing  243  Fix broken
line in cutter script  Fixed the relevant line  351  Portable Globe
Cutter fails with a Python error  Fixed import errors in the cutter
scripts  381  Error running POI Search  Needed to declare the coding
in headers of python script:# -- coding: utf-8 -  431  portable build
failure - CentOS 7 - old version of pexpect.  Try loading fdpexpect
for version 3.* and above. If not successful, fallback to fdpexpect
from older pexpect package.  435  Specify C++ version for portable
build  Updated the build_lib scripts to include the flag
"-std=gnu++98"  436  Seg fault in fusion when opening vector resource
created in old version  Eliminated NULL pointer error in date/time
function
